adenosine ' triphosphate sulfurylase from arabidopsis thaliana and escherichia coli are functionally equivalent but structurally and kinetically divergent. nucleotide sequence of two adenosine ' triphosphate sulfurylase cdnas from arabidopsis thaliana and analysis of a recombinant enzyme.. . atp sulfurylase, the first enzyme of sulfate assimilation, catalyzes the formation of adenosine ' phosphosulfate from atp and sulfate. here we report that the higher plant, arabidopsis thaliana, contains a three member, expressed gene family encoding plastid localized forms of atp sulfurylase. three cdnas from a. thaliana, designated aps, aps, and aps, were isolated by their ability to functionally complement a met (atp sulfurylase) mutant strain of saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast). the nucleotide sequence of aps was reported previously (). aps and aps, reported here, have and codon open reading frames encoding . and . kda polypeptides, respectively. the translation products of both clones are highly homologous to aps ( and % identity, respectively) over their entire lengths, including amino terminal sequences resembling transit peptides for plastid localization. both clones are less homologous to met ( and % identity, respectively). genomic blot analysis of a. thaliana revealed only three genes with homology to the aps cdnas and rna blot analysis showed that aps is the most highly expressed member of this gene family. the aps polypeptides share homology with atp sulfurylases from fungi, a marine worm and a chemoautotrophic bacterium, but, not from escherichia coli or rhizobium meliloti. analysis of recombinant aps showed that the protein is structurally and kinetically similar to fungal atp sulfurylase, but very different from the e. coli enzyme. the aps polypeptide is a homotetramer with specific activities (mumol primary product x mg protein at ph ., degrees c) for . for aps synthesis, . for molybdolysis, and . for atp synthesis. despite the sequence, structural, and kinetic differences between higher plant and e. coli atp sulfurylases, aps and aps are able to functionally complement e. coli cysd and cysn (atp sulfurylase) mutant strains.