seven network ltd's managing director gary rice said on wednesday that he expected a slightly better performance in the second half of / than a year earlier.. "i think in relative terms, i would expect to see a slight improvement in general performance terms in the second half," rice told reuters in a telephone interview. asked if he saw a better performance for the whole year, rice replied. "yes.". seven earlier reported a . percent fall in net profit to a$. million in the weeks to december . . asked if the advertising market would be stronger overall in / compared with /, rice said. "i think it will be marginally better than last year difficult to call at this point." he added there was signs of improvement in advertising from some sectors.. he said seven has no plans for further major cost cuts at the network. in october, the broadcaster retrenched staff in an effort to streamline costs.. seven invested us$ million in hollywood studio metro goldwyn mayer (mgm) for control of the studio with united states billionaire kirk kerkorian late last year. . mgm reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) of us$. million in the period from october last year to december on an operating revenue of $. million.. "we are very happy with the progress at mgm," rice said.. seven's second half result is traditionally weaker than the first half.. the network, which is percent owned by its chairman kerry stokes, reported a net profit of a$. million for the / year, compared with a$. million a year earlier.. but seven did not account for tax in these two years. . seven, which is also percent owned by rupert murdoch's news corp ltd, said although it does not expect to pay tax for another two years, accounting standards required recognition of this income tax expense in the half year results. it said tax amounted to a$. million in the half.. sales rose . percent to a$. million in the six months to the end of december.. at . p.m. ( gmt), seven shares were one cent down at a$., but were firmer than the level before the results were released.. sydney newsroom .