australia's largest contruction group leighton holdings ltd is expected to report a jump of more than percent in pre abnormal net profit for the six months ended december when it reports on thursday, analysts said.. analysts contacted by reuters forecast leighton would report a pre abnormal net of between a$ million and a$ million for the / first half.. last year, leighton, which is about percent owned by german construction group hochtief ag, reported a net profit of a$. million for the / first half. . the expected stronger profit is also likely to see the first half dividend raised to between . and . cents a share from . cents a year earlier.. "they should have a good result out of asia, contract mining should continue to throw up good results and the casino should make a reasonable contribution," said john north, an analyst with brokers j.b. were and son.. leighton is the contractor for the a$. billion sydney casino development.. north forecast leighton would report a half year net profit before abnormals of a$ million. . analysts said they expect leighton to report another record annual profit in the / year to june , with estimates of around a$ million. leighton reported a net profit of a$. million in /.. "from an earnings perspective, the outlook is quite reasonable for the next couple of years," said simon shakeshift, a property analyst at macquarie equities.. shakeshift sees leighton reporting a net profit of a$ million in the half year and declaring a dividend of eight cents a share. he forecasts a full year net profit of a$ million. . one sydney based analyst, who asked not to be named, forecast a net profit before abnormals of a$ million and a half year dividend of . cents.. the analyst said leighton is also likely to report an abnormal loss from the sale of its . percent stake in singapore construction group ipco international ltd.. leighton said last year it would make a loss of about a$. million on the sale of the ipco stake.. analysts said they expect leighton to maintain its level of work in hand of more than a$. billion.. leighton shares closed steady at a$. on monday. . sydney newsroom .