australian government owned telstra corp reported a . percent fall in net profit for the / first half as the costs of shedding almost a third of its workforce started to ring up for the telephone carrier.. telstra, which is to be partially privatised by the end of the year, also said it was in talks with global telecom carriers about forming possible alliances.. "we are dancing with everyone, but we haven't taken anyone home from the dance yet," chief executive officer frank blount told reporters after the results announcement.. the australian carrier reported a net profit after abnormals of a$. million (us$. million) in the six months to december , , compared with a$. billion a year ago.. redundancy costs were a$. billion in the half year period with staff levels down by , during the half to about ,. under telstra's plan announced last september about , jobs are to go by the end of fiscal /.. revenue grew by . percent to a$. billion in the december half. blount said first half revenue was pressured by a slowing economy and increased competition.. it was unlikely revenue would grow any faster for the rest of the year to june , , blount said.. "i think the economy is picking up, but we are still seeing softness in revenue, but it is still growing about the same level as in the first half," blount told reporters.. telstra is to face stiffer competition in / due to the deregulation of the local telecommunications markets from july , , although few foreign telecom groups so far have openly stated they would enter the australia market.. british telecom plc (bt) and u.s. telecom giant at&amp;t corp have, however, been tipped to enter the local market.. blount said telstra had been in talks with bt and its partner mci communications corp, at&amp;t corp and the global one consortium about possible alliances.. "we have had talks with global one...we have had talks with at&amp;t...and we have continuing talks with bt/mci," blount said. excluding the abnormal losses, telstra reported a . percent rise in net profit to a$. billion.. the result was well received by the australian government, which said the partial tesltra float is still on for the end of . the government gets to pocket a$ million in dividend payments from the carrier.. "i think the company is very well placed for privatisation," communications minister richard alston told reporters in canberra. "we're still hopeful that (the sale) will occur before the end of the calendar year," alston said. the government last year moved to sell one third of telstra for a projected a$. billion, but recent estimates put the sale price much higher.. telstra is spending about a$. billion on the rollout of its cable network around australia, which carries its pay television service foxtel that it owns jointly with rupert murdoch's news corp ltd.. telstra's share of losses from foxtel in the half was a$ million, finance director paul rizzo told reporters.. "i am not concerned about the losses of foxtel, because they are not that far off track, they are very close to plan," blount said. "of course we are having losses in pay tv, that is the business," he said.. a$=us$..