qantas airways ltd is expected to fly slightly above its prospectus net profit forecast of a$ million for the year to june , but analysts said / results could hit some turbulence over current wage talks.. australian aviation analysts expect qantas to report an annual net profit before abnormals of between a$ million and a$ million. the airline is expected to pay a second half dividend of cents, making a total of . for the year. . analysts said the qantas result would be helped by lower costs, on which the airline has focussed since it became a publicly owned company in july .. "we have got an official figure of a$ (million), but i really expect it to be around the a$ to a$ million mark and that would be largely driven by the cash flow being steered towards paying off debt," a melbourne analyst said.. anz mccaughan aviation analyst yasmin allen expects qantas to report a profit of a$ million for /. "i would not be surprised to see it come in above that," allen told reuters. . another melbourne based aviation analyst forecast qantas to report a net profit right on the prospectus forecast of a$ million while one sydney based analyst forecast a net profit before abnormals of a$. million for the year.. "they have done well on the cost reduction side and they have seen the market grow, but they have lost market share, so add all that up and i think they will come out about square," the second melbourne based analyst said.. last week the department of transport released data showing that qantas, including wholly owned australia asia airlines, had a . percent international market share in april. . qantas, which is percent owned by british airways plc, forecast in its prospectus that its international market share would be . percent for the june , year.. qantas, known as the 'flying kangaroo' estimated a one percentage point variation from this forecast would affect the bottom line profit by a$ million.. however, analysts said they were more interested in comments about qantas' outlook for the / year, as costs may increase, arising from current wage talks, renewed domestic competition, and continued pressure on international routes. . qantas has offered an eight percent pay rise over two years over two years on condition that productivity reforms are implemented, but unions want productivity gains to be rewarded by a wage rise over and above the eight percent offer.. qantas shares took a dive to a record low of a$. on july as the market got the jitters that management had conceded to union pressure and award a wage rise above eight percent.. the unions initially made a claim for two consecutive annual wage rises of percent but last month, qantas chief executive james strong said this claim would wipe out the airline's profit if successful. . qantas shares have now moved back to familiar territory and on tuesday were trading at a$... analysts expect qantas to report a net profit before abnormals of between a$ million to a$ million for /, but some analysts said they would be ready to mark down these numbers if there were some very negative comments from qantas.. they said the planned purchase by air new zealand ltd of a percent stake in local airline ansett airlines ltd may pressure the / results . "people have known what will look like but is going to be a different story for a whole mix of things and there should also be some impact from a combined ansett/air new zealand when that starts to happen later this year," the sydney analyst said.. sydney newsroom .