australian aluminium producer comalco ltd said on wednesday its smelting division was back in profit and that major expansion work was starting to pay off.. comalco, which plunged into the red in calendar after a rotten year of low aluminium prices and high costs, said it had turned a "reasonable" profit for the first three months of .. comalco is owned percent by global mining giant rtz corp plc cra ltd, soon to be renamed rio tinto. . speaking at the company's annual meeting, chairman leigh clifford also announced a new pot line at its majority owned boyne island smelter in queensland would be running at full steam from the third quarter of .. the a$ billion expansion, in which comalco has a . percent stake, as well as recent expansions and upgrades at its tasmanian and new zealand smelters, will take the company's share of total output to over , tonnes in , he said.. the world aluminium market is also improving, with the london metal exchange price averaging u.s. cents per pound so far in , clifford said. it averaged cents in . . "aluminium demand is strong in asia and north america and the outlook for the industry is robust," clifford said.. brokerage hsbc james capel expects comalco to report a net profit before abnormals of about a$ million in , assuming a firm rise in aluminium price in the second half of the year.. "a chunk of that earnings will be as much a function of increased production volumes as price," hsbc james capel analyst unit safak told reuters.. comalco reported a bottom line loss of a$. million on a joint venture basis for , after abnormal losses before tax of a$. million. . the closure of comalco's kaolin plant at its bauxite mine in weipa, in north queensland, and workforce restructuring accounted for most of the abnormal losses.. by the end of , comalco expects to have shed workers since september last year, chief executive terry palmer said.. with about percent of workforce restructuring complete, cost reductions played a part in first quarter profits, he said.. "the impact (of lower costs) has been pretty solid," palmer told reporters after the brief meeting. . comalco, the only one of rtz cra's business not performing in the most efficient quartile of the world's producers in , hopes to reach that benchmark in .. "i think to get to those sorts of levels you have to look at well into next year," palmer said.. comalco was not prepared on wednesday to say when it would decide on the site for its remaining major project, a a$ billion alumina refinery.. the refinery is to be sited in sarawak, malaysia, or at gladstone, queensland, depending on which site offers the better deal on price and security of power supply. . in queensland or malaysia, the refinery would be powered by gas.. melbourne bureau .