french defence electronics company thomson csf, soon to be sold by the state, wednesday posted results that showed a return to profit after three years of heavy losses.. thomson csf reported net profit of million francs ($ million) compared with a net loss of million ($ million) for . sales were up . percent at . billion ($. billion).. the government, after a bungled first attempt, is trying to privatise thomson csf as part of a defence industry restructuring that could have an impact on the entire european sector.. french engineering and telecommunications giant alcatel alsthom has teamed up with aircraft maker dassault aviation and state owned aerospatiale to bid for thomson csf. lagardere, involved in businesses ranging from missiles to publishing, is also bidding, supported by british aerospace plc.. thomson csf said its operating profit rose . percent to . billion francs ($ million) despite a reduction in military budgets and tougher markets. the improvement was due to better competitiveness following restructuring efforts pursued over a number of years.. the net result was dented by an exceptional charge of million francs ($ million), compared with million ($ million) in the prior year, to cover restructuring costs tied to the shrinking of markets and cost cutting measures, it said.. consolidated pretax profit was . billion francs ($ million), versus a loss of million ($ million), which included a million franc ($. million) hit from its the sale of its holding in the troubled state owned bank credit lyonnais.. thomson csf's previous three years' losses were essentially due to falls in the value of credit lyonnais' shares, which were taken on thomson csf's accounts to reflect its equity stake.. europe, excluding france, contributed more than billion francs ($. billion) in sales for the first time, compared with less than four billion ($ million) in .. "the european market accounts for percent of the consolidated turnover, against only percent at the end of the s," it said, adding this was due to its policy of external growth through acquisitions.. its holding in profitable semiconductor maker sgs thomson contributed million francs ($ million), up from million ($ million) in .. net debt fell to million ($ million) from . billion ($ million)..