french carmakers renault sa and psa peugeot citroen on wednesday reported slight gains in first quarter sales, despite sharp falls in their core domestic market.. renault reported consolidated revenues of . billion francs ($. billion), up three percent from a year ago or . percent on a like for like basis.. the psa group posted turnover of . billion francs, up . percent or . percent on a like for like basis.. both firms said exports offset sharp drops in domestic sales following the end to a french government rebate scheme to encourage car purchases. renault's sales in the home market dropped . percent in the period, while psa's fell percent.. "in the first quarter, the upturn in the automobile market in western europe, excluding france, was slightly higher than expected. in addition, there was a favourable trend in exchange rates," renault said in a statement.. renault's automobile division revenues were up . percent, or . percent on a like for like basis. this sector accounts for percent of total group revenues.. commercial vehicles, which includes mack trucks in the united states, saw a . percent revenue decline to . billion francs. stripping out changes in company structure and currency movements, the fall was . percent, which was mainly due to a drop in european sales.. renault's finance division contributed two billion francs, representing . percent of group revenues, down from . percent, with the fall due to lower interest rates in france and germany.. the french government holds a percent stake in renault, which is currently embroiled in a controversial closure of its vilvoorde car plant in belgium.. the psa group recorded total worldwide sales of , vehicles, up . percent from the period. the automobile division showed a . percent rise, or . percent on a like for like basis.. sales of its peugeot and citroen cars in western europe fell . percent to , in the first quarter, due to a fall in the french market following the end of the rebate system, psa said in a statement.. psa saw sales in the european market, outside france, rise . percent to , units, with particularly good performances in britain, italy, the netherlands and spain.. a launch of the citroen berlingo and peugeot partner products helped boost sales of light utility vehicles in the european market by percent to , units. ($ = . french francs).