amino acid replacements in yeast iso cytochrome c. comparison with the phylogenetic series and the tertiary structure of related cytochromes c.. . the structural and folding requirements of eukaryotic cytochromes c have been investigated by determining the appropriate dna sequences of a collection of independent cyc missense mutations obtained in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae and by deducing the corresponding amino acid replacements that abolish function of iso cytochrome c. a total of different replacements at amino acid positions were uncovered in this and previous studies. because all of these nonfunctional iso cytochromes c are produced at far below the normal level and because a representative number are labile in vitro, most of the replacements appear to be affecting stability of the protein or heme attachment. by considering the tertiary structure of related cytochromes c, the loss of function of most of the mutant iso cytochromes c could be attributed to either replacements of critical residues that directly interact with the heme group or to replacements that disrupt the proper folding of the protein. the replacements of residues interacting with the heme group include those required for covalent attachment (cys and cys ), ligand formation (his and met ), and formation of the immediate heme environment (leu , tyr , trp , and leu ). proper folding of the protein is prevented by replacements of glycine residues at sites that cannot accommodate side chains (gly and gly ); by replacements of residues with proline, which limit the torsion angle (leu and his ); and by replacements apparently unable to direct the local folding of the backbone into the proper conformation (pro , tyr , asn , pro , lys , leu , and leu ). even though most of the missense mutations occurred at sites corresponding to evolutionarily invariant or conserved residues, a consideration of the replacements in functional revertants indicates that the requirement for residues evolutionarily preserved is less stringent than commonly assumed.