china, currently importing about , tonnes of soybean oil a month, could step up imports as traders move away from palm oil and new licences to import soybean oil become available, asian traders said on wednesday.. while chinese markets are seen flush with oil at the moment, traders said most of the available vegetable oil is palm, which is now selling at a hefty premium to soybean oil.. palm oil is costing $ a tonne fob (free on board) at malaysian ports, a singapore trading source said. he said freight charges added a further $ per tonne. this would put the c&amp;f (cost and freight) price on arrival in china at $ a tonne.. in comparison, south american soybean oil is arriving in china at about $ a tonne c&amp;f, he said, adding "it's a big spread.". "people are clamouring for (soybean oil) import licences now," another regional trader told reuters.. china on monday purchased a total of , tonnes of u.s. soybean oil for february shipment, u.s. exporters in chicago said. . one position for , tonnes was slated for shipment from the u.s. gulf for around $ per tonne fob, the other , tonnes for shipment from norfolk at $ a tonne fob.. u.s. exporters say china has been seen actively buying south american vegetable oil. they estimated purchases at around , to , tonnes of brazilian and argentinian product.. china's total soybean oil imports were . million tonnes, with imports in december alone at , tonnes.. january and february import figures are expected to show a dip because of western and chinese holidays, traders said, adding it would probably be made up in the second quarter of .. western and chinese traders have said they do not understand how the government administers the import licencing system given that permits were issued for only , to , tonnes of the . million tonnes of soybean oil imported in .. soybean oil imported without a licence is subject to import duty of percent, compared to licenced imports which are subject to a percent import duty and percent value added tax (vat) on top of that. . fears of an official crackdown on soybean oil arriving without permits arose last week on news that one , tonne cargo of u.s. oil had been held up at a chinese port.. a trader involved in the sale told reuters at the time the huge gap between china's domestic price and the international price could see chinese importers placing orders without the necessary import licences.. south american and u.s. soybean oil, once refined, is costing around , yuan ($) a tonne, compared to , to , yuan ($ ) per tonne for the domestic product.. however, traders said soybean import licences are now being made available on a regular basis and the , tonne cargo had been discharged.. ($=. yuan). shanghai newsroom ( ) .