as china winds down from a two week spring festival holiday and warmer weather looms, far east metals traders forecast on monday that demand for chinese base metals would begin to pick up.. some traders said physical tightness of some materials, especially copper and aluminium, would push premiums higher.. a trader based in hong kong with a major chinese metals producing firm said mainland customers who had bought three months ahead of the new year holiday were now clamouring for nearby delivery.. "i will have to contact the lme (london metal exchange) and arrange to borrow because they want their tonnes before the end of this month," he said.. "we're expecting our customers to buy, though many are holding on for price falls," he said, adding that high lme prices should soon prompt a profit taking related correction.. tightness in the chinese domestic market was immediately evident on the shanghai metal exchange, which resumed trading on monday after the lunar new year holidays. . shanghai copper futures were sharply higher with the most active may contract opening at , yuan ($,) per tonne, up yuan. it rose further to its limit up of , yuan per tonne early in the session.. a source in shanghai with a western trading firm said the local exchange's stocks stood close to , tonnes, though this could hardly be considered high.. aluminium futures also opened up, with the may contract first traded at , yuan per tonne, up yuan.. dips in the lme price of aluminium have prompted chinese orders over the past two weeks, an industry executive said.. "my belief is that despite the fact that the chinese were on holiday, there have been some chinese orders going into the lme already," the executive said on condition of anonymity.. a long awaited correction in the aluminium price had brought chinese buyers out of their holiday cocoon, he said, adding however that he had no details of chinese orders.. aluminium prices on the lme have whipsawed recently. they sagged on friday under commission house sales and liquidation after the market failed to respond to a , tonne draw down on stocks. final kerb trade was at $,, down $ per tonne. . china's peak aluminium usage period coincides with summer when demand for airconditioners and refrigerators soars.. china's imports of unwrought aluminium and aluminium materials in rose by three percent, to , tonnes, from 's , tonnes, according to official figures.. exports of unwrought aluminium and aluminium materials fell . percent in to , tonnes, from , tonnes in .. the latest hong kong/shanghai indications of premium or discount in us$/tonne over lme cash prices on a cif basis.. feb feb . copper n/a n/a. aluminium. (western, fob south china). n/a. (cis) n/a. lead n/a. (fob chinese ports) n/a n/a. zinc. (chinese) . (chinese unregistered, fob shanghai). n/a n/a. (western) n/a . (western alloys) n/a n/a. ($=. yuan). shanghai newsroom ( ) .