copper prices on the london metal exchange (lme), which have reached a nine month high, are not supported by fundamentals and cannot last, a private chinese base metals consultancy said on thursday.. "we believe that worldwide copper fundamentals do not support the copper price rises, that any rises in the copper price will be shortlived and that will see a bearish market for copper," the shanghai colub consultant co said in a report.. analyst rudolf wolff, in an evening metal report, said that with little producer selling on wednesday, it seemed any further buying could easily push the copper price towards its $, $, technical target.. lme copper reached a fresh nine month high of $, a tonne at gmt on wednesday, after a kerb level of $, a tonne, up $ on the day.. but the report said although the charts remained bullish, the fundamentals were not.. shanghai colub consultant co's managing director yen zheng agreed, saying his company was more interested in market fundamentals than technical analysis.. in its internal report, a copy of which was provided to reuters, shanghai colub says an increase in worldwide copper output in should continue into , quickly turning the market from shortage to oversupply.. new technology was constantly lowering production costs, the report said, with the average worldwide production cost of . u.s. cents a lb likely to fall to . cents a lb in .. if the copper price hit cents a lb, profit margins would stretch to . percent and hedging opportunities would widen, the report said.. the level of lme copper stocks affected the price more than other stocks, such as those held by producers and end users, the report said. it cited the effect that the "irrationally" low lme stock level of , tonnes at the end of had in pushing up prices.. copper prices had a roller coaster ride in . they plummeted to a / year low of $, a tonne in june, when japan's sumitomo corp revealed massive trading losses, from a high for the year just a month earlier of $, a tonne.. but tight global supply and low stocks saw lme copper prices claw their way back, to start at $, a tonne.. with prices now around $, a tonne, the shanghai colub report points to the current large stocks of copper held in lme warehouses and concludes that stocks will continue to rise, pushing values down.. "recently, lme copper stocks have risen to around , tonnes, and while they will move around this level, the trend for stock increases will not change and will very quickly rise to , tonnes," the report said. "this is one reason the lme copper price will fall.". lme warehouses now hold , tonnes of copper, after a slight fall earlier this week of , tonnes.. china's influence on the world market was also significant because the country was a major copper user, the report said.. in , china produced , tonnes of refined copper, importing , tonnes for total national demand of , tonnes, the shanghai colub report said.. china's carryover stocks from into were around , tonnes, it said, going some way to explain the difference between demand and domestic production and import figures.. a recent report in the official market daily newspaper said china's exports of uncast and raw copper were up . percent on , to , tonnes.. the shanghai colub report said that while china's copper production in should be about the same as last year, demand would rise to . million tonnes, maintaining the balance between demand and available stocks.. shanghai newsroom ( ) .