tin production at one of china's biggest mines has been cut by summer flooding, but a lacklustre market means business has not been affected, an executive with deng's yunnan tin corp said on monday.. gejiu tin mine in southern yunnan province was damaged by floods in june and july, deputy general manager sheng weichung told reuters.. deng's yunnan tin corp is the hong kong representative and trading arm of yunnan tin corp, china's biggest tin producer. . in , sheng said, yunnan tin corp produced , tonnes of tin. the gejiu mine was the company's biggest, he said.. "but business has been slow in china because the world market is soft and because of domestic restructuring of the industry, changes in government policy and tight credit," sheng said. "so a cut in production at the gejiu mine would not have any adverse affect on china's overall tin industry picture.". it was unclear how extensive the damage to the mine was, he said, or by how much production had been cut. . china expected to produce , tonnes of tin in , an official of the china national non ferrous metals import and export corp said in july.. he forecast exports of , to , tonnes.. total tin exports were , tonnes, down . percent on the year before, china's state statistical bureau reported.. total chinese tin production for the first half of was down . percent on the same period, to , tonnes, the figures show. . exports for the first half of of unwrought tin and tin alloys were , tonnes, down percent on the first half of , customs figures show.. tin exports in june were , tonnes.. despite its size and the high quality of its product, yunnan tin corp was still a "loss making state enterprise" and as such was facing tough times, sheng said.. a labour force of , had been cut within the past two years to , with the introduction of a redundancy programme that offered lump sum payments, he said. . senior management had also been trying to raise capital abroad to help get expansion projects off the ground, he said.. other metals markets in china continued slow, traders said.. a return to pre summer volatility that saw london metal exchange (lme) copper prices fluctuate sharply throughout last week would keep china business slow, traders said.. three month copper values on the lme traded between $, and $, a tonne in the july august period, giving traders some hope that calm had returned to the market after sumitomo corp revealed in june it had lost us$. billion in a decade of unauthorised trading. . but the calm was shortlived. on september , copper prices spiked to a / month high of $,, before slumping back on friday to $,.. "i think the market will go down again," a trader in singapore said.. a lack of buyers for chinese aluminium products had led to domestic stockbuilding, trading sources said.. "they are in the market to export, but there is no real market for them...we are not touching it," another source said.. singapore premiums for zinc were firm at around $ over the lme cash price, traders said. . another source added the only zinc available for trading in singapore was chinese, "and the chinese are working on a fixed price basis" of around $, to $, a tonne.. three month lme zinc closed six dollars down on friday at $, a tonne.. latest hong kong indications at a premium or discount in us$/tonne over lme cash prices on a cif basis.. sep sep . copper (ex singapore) n/a. (ex rotterdam) n/a . aluminium western n/a . cis n/a . lead (chinese brands) n/a . (lme registered) flat n/a. zinc . ($=. yuan). hong kong newsroom, () .