chinese copper producers could soon start selling their red metal to take advantage of current high prices and before a long awaited correction hits the international market, chinese traders said on friday.. london metal exchange (lme) copper, currently hovering close to its highest price in almost a year, is ready for a correction and chinese producers want to get what they can before the price fall begins, a shanghai copper trader said.. "chinese producers have begun to sell domestically at these prices because they don't believe they will last," he said.. prices on the shanghai metal exchange (sme), which often move in tandem with the lme, rose on friday morning, in what one trading source in the city said was a reflection of local fundamentals.. "once the local selling becomes a factor here, the price in shanghai will correct," he said.. shanghai copper futures opened mostly up on friday. the most active june contract opened at , yuan ($,) per tonne, up yuan from thursday's close. it moved around that level early in the session.. traders on the sme said copper was likely to consolidate in a range of , to , yuan ($, ,) in the short term with buyers and sellers having mixed views over its direction.. lme copper see sawed in trade on thursday, breaching the $, resistance level at the afternoon kerb. it closed at $, per tonne, up $ on the day, after fund buying at the midday dips spurred the price up.. shanghai traders said they expected the funds to begin selling, bringing the correction with them in the process.. traders and analysts here have said the lme copper price is not supported by fundamentals and that the market is waiting for chinese buying to begin.. china's total copper production in was , tonnes, up . percent on , according to state statistical bureau figures. physical demand for copper in china for is expected to exceed supply by around , tonnes.. chinese media reported in january that china's copper demand should rise five percent over last year to . million tonnes. output is expected to be more than , tonnes.. copper imports are expected to remain high, media reports have said. imports of raw and uncast copper in were up . percent to , tonnes.. western traders and those elsewhere in the region agreed china needed to buy copper, but those polled by reuters were unanimous that china appeared to be holding off on its buying programme while prices remained high.. but chinese buyers are not known for entering the market at the bottom of a correction, instead, they are likely to wait for prices to rise again before coming in, shanghai traders said.. "i think $, to $, (per tonne on the lme) would be a good price because china will need to buy, they are short of copper every year," said an executive in shanghai with a european metal producer.. she said the crackdown on scrap imports, part of china's campaign last year against the import of foreign garbage, would lead to a rise in chinese need for cathode.. "domestic prices are still moving up, i guess because stocks are getting low," she said. "they will have to buy eventually.". figures released last friday by the sme show exchange warehouse copper stocks at , tonnes.. but local traders have said this figure has barely changed in recent months and the big question is the tonnage off warrant, that is, the amount of copper not registered on the exchange but still available to the market.. shanghai newsroom ( ) .