china could be sitting on ample copper supplies to get it through the next few months, wiping out the need to buy on the world market whether current high prices fall or not, traders and analysts said on thursday.. copper stored in shanghai warehouses could be around , tonnes if talk is to be believed, a chinese trader with a beijing run firm in singapore said.. shanghai metal exchange (sme) warehouse figures released last week put copper stocks at , tonnes, which a sme copper futures trader told reuters was about two months' supply.. another chinese trading source said he had confirmed with sources at the chinese state reserve bureau that shanghai warehouses held , tonnes of central reserve copper.. the market has been plagued in the past year by talk of , tonnes of copper being held in shanghai. officials have consistently denied any knowledge of such a stockpile.. that copper and another , tonnes were reported to have been channeled into china after last year's revelations by japan's sumitomo corp of $. billion in copper trading losses, which led to significant price falls.. many market and industry sources said at the time that the copper, moved out of bonded warehouses and through customs in october and november , was bought by beijing's metals trading arm china national non ferrous metals import/export corp, possibly in conjunction with sumitomo.. neither corporation has made an official comment.. analysts with private think tank shanghai colub consultant co have said china's carryover copper stocks from imports could be as high as , tonnes.. the official china daily business weekly said last sunday that china amassed a stockpile in of , tonnes of copper which would be used to fill the domestic supply/demand gap in .. it put imports at more than , tonnes, for demand of . million tonnes and production of about , tonnes.. imports in of raw and uncast copper were up . percent to , tonnes, according to official figures. exports were , tonnes, leaving net imports at , tonnes, the figures show.. "i'm convinced they have enough (copper)," a trader with a major european firm said.. "everyone has been waiting since chinese new year for this huge chinese buying spree... it is possible there are tens of thousands of tonnes of copper there," he said.. whether or not the red metal is moving into tight supply in china as some traders looking at falling sme prices believe few traders polled by reuters see chinese buying at current prices.. london metal exchange (lme) copper prices dipped slightly in inter office trading late on wednesday after putting in a weak performance in ring activity. at gmt three month prices were indicated at $,/ per tonne, down from a kerb close of $,.. london analysts said they saw copper testing the $, support level in the near term.. "my (chinese) customers are telling me they would rather close their factories than buy at these levels," said vinod kumar, general manager of singapore trading house donald macarthy.. "they can't make any money if they buy above $, (per tonne)," kumar said by telephone.. other trading sources in the region and in china put prices favourable to chinese importers at $, to $, per tonne.. shanghai newsroom ( ) .