world zinc prices that have risen to levels not seen for more than four years are good for chinese zinc producers who will gear up output to take advantage of the hikes, producing and trading sources said on tuesday.. while many chinese producers have sold out of their metal, output would be boosted from april, said a source at the zhuzhou smelter, one of china's major producers in hunan province.. zhuzhou's exports for the first three months of would hit , tonnes, more than for the same period of , he said, though he had no comparative figure.. as with most producers, zhuzhou had been moving its metal to japan to take advantage of tokyo's general system of preferences (gsp) policy that exempts developing country imports from tariffs if they are submitted for customs clearance before the beginning of the fiscal year on april , the source said.. "this is on long term contracts, and you can say we're pretty well sold out," the source said.. this knowledge has led some western industry sources to question just how quickly the chinese could take advantage of the current price rally.. trading sources said significant tonnages of chinese zinc had been delivered to warehouses in singapore, where it is used as collateral for loans but also is available for sales on price rises.. talk among traders has put the amount stored singapore at up to , tonnes, but this could not be confirmed with chinese or western sources.. the worldwide zinc supply is expected to become tight in the second half of . one western producer representative said his company was sold out for the second half and he saw world prices climbing another $ a tonne before the end of the year.. "this situation really does seem good for china," the zhuzhou source said.. zinc prices on the london metal exchange (lme) ploughed through a / year high on monday after a sizeable fall in stocks announced last friday.. the market touched $, a tonne before settling $ a tonne up on the day at $,. the metal at gmt was being quoted just a shade under $, at $,/ a tonne.. premiums have begun to soften on the back of the firming prices. one representative of a north american producer said chinese traders were quoting premiums on a cost and freight (c&amp;f) at $ a tonne at chinese ports.. a chinese trader in hong kong, who sells registered and unregistered zinc on behalf of southern chinese producers, said he was quoting premiums over the lme cash price basis chinese ports at $ a tonne. he said $ would be the bottom level.. a western trader in singapore said chinese smelters had sold forward, leaving domestic supply tight. chinese trading sources agreed that metal in china is now in tight supply.. firm domestic prices of around , yuan ($,) a tonne were indicative of the tightness, the zhuzhou source said, "but the domestic market just isn't that big".. some sources in china have said they think will be a historic year for chinese zinc exports, with one local trader putting china's total for the year at half a million tonnes, with up to , tonnes done in january and february alone.. official china customs figures show china's exports of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys in january reached , tonnes, up . percent compared to the year ago period.. china exported , tonnes of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys in , up . percent on , the figures show.. shanghai newsroom ( ) .