franco italian semiconductor group sgs thomson microelectronics nv on wednesday reported a percent rise in earnings to $. million, but warned about the first quarter of after a weak end to last year.. a . percent fall in fourth quarter earnings to $ million contrasted with a near doubling of intel corp's profit in the same period. the u.s. company's report on january had boosted sgs thomson shares on bullish expectations.. sgs thomson shares plunged more than five percent to francs at midday following the results and a company statement saying the recovery of the world semiconductor market may be postponed by one or two quarters, with a real upturn not starting until .. president and chief executive pasquale pistorio said he was pleased with the performance. he was cautious about the first quarter of , although he said the company would still outperform the industry average.. "with lead times shrinking throughout the industry, we are entering the first quarter of with less order visibility than we have historically enjoyed," he said.. "from what we know today, we expect first quarter revenues to be close to third quarter levels. we also anticipate that overall pricing pressures will continue, and therefore, in spite of productivity improvements, gross margins could be slightly below fourth quarter levels.". in the third quarter, net revenues were $. million.. "while first quarter conditions continue to be uncertain, we believe that subsequent quarters of will show progressive improvement compared to the first quarter as the company continues to emphasise differentiated products and high growth applications," pistorio added.. "recent contracts with key customers and new design wins in such high growth areas as hard disk drives, set top boxes and digital cellular phones give us confidence that sgs thomson will continue to outperform the industry average in .". company chief economist jean phillipe dauvin said the world semiconductor market had fallen by eight percent in which made it the third worst year on record for the industry.. the fall was to a large extent due to price pressures, with prices of dynamic random access memory (dram) chips plunging by to percent, causing losses at many chipmakers.. sgs thomson does not make drams, however, but dedicated chips which shielded it somewhat from the price erosion. its market rose by five percent.. dauvin said that market research bureaux wsts, dataquest and vlsi research were predicting a market increase ranging from respectively . percent to . percent.. "they are now seeing recovery before the (start of the) second half of . i think they are probably optimistic. if overcapacity persists, the recovery could be postponed by one to two quarters," dauvin said.. "in there will probably be a slight recovery but we will not see a big upturn until . it is possible that we have to postpone the start of the recovery from june july to the second half of ," he added.. in , according to dataquest estimates, sgs thomson moved to the ninth place in the world ranking from in , being the sole chip maker with intel to show significant sales growth.. dauvin said he maintained his forecast that the chip market would be worth $ billion in , rising from $ billion in .. sgs thomson, whose shares are listed in paris and new york, is percent owned by two consortia, one french and one italian, reflecting its formation in a merger of france's thomson semiconducteurs and italy's sgs microelettronica.. its main shareholders are france telecom sa, thomson csf, cea industrie, comitato sir, iri and finmeccanica.. pistorio denied a rumour the company might be interested in buying cyrix of the u.s..