french energy group total sa on wednesday reported a percent increase in its net income to . billion francs ($ billion), boosted by higher oil prices, a firmer dollar, improved refining margins and productivity gains.. the profit figure, which was in line with financial analysts' expectations, would have shown a percent increase if special charges of . billion francs were taken into account.. operating income rose by percent to . billion francs on percent higher sales of billion francs.. total chairman thierry desmarest said the profit improvement compared with rises of some percent at u.s. oil majors.. larger french group elf in december said its net income would be between . and . billion francs compared with . billion in , or some percent higher.. total shares rose on the figures, adding . percent to . francs at gmt while the blue chip index was down . percent.. "a more favourable operating environment in than accounts for more than half of (the) . billion franc increase in operating income," total said, adding external factors such as these had a positive impact of two billion francs.. the u.s. dollar rose to an average rate of . francs in to . francs in , brent oil rose to . per barrel from $. per barrel while the refining margins improved to $. per ton from $. per ton.. productivity gains contributed million francs to the improvement and higher volumes . billion. an increase in operating expenses trimmed the total gain by million.. desmarest said he expected the oil price to slip in , due to the return of iraq to the market and higher production by non opec members, but he expected it not to fall as far as the / low of $. a barrel.. "i do not think that we will continue to see the favourable prices from the start of the year," desmarest said. "but it is very unlikely that it will return to a level of $. per barrel.". total expects a further increase in profits but desmarest declined to be drawn into precise forecasts.. "continuing production growth and ongoing productivity gains projected over the next few years should allow the company to improve profitability relative to the level of return on equity." total said.. desmarest told the news conference that he aimed to get a four billion franc increase in the years up to . "for the next three years, and with unchanged circumstances, we aim to improve the operating results by four billion francs," he said.. total aims to boost its investments in to billion francs, from billion in , with the lion's share going to upstream activities exploration and production.. desmarest said that by the year , he expected about half of the company's operating income to come from exploration and production, while both the downstream and chemicals activities would have a slice of to percent.. total aims to have reserves to allow it to tap into more than one million barrels of oil equivalent per day in the year and planned further growth after that.. in downstream, refining and marketing, total is still faced with a weak european market.. desmarest said the company was ready to participate in a restructuring of the refining industry but he did not plan to shut total's refineries. instead he was willing to offer access to the refineries to other operators in exchange for closures.. ($=. french franc).