the french government is moving edgily towards a key decision for the future of europe's defence industry whether to privatise defence electronics group thomson csf through a public sale or private placement.. the stakes are huge, as the choice of the method of sale will to a large extent determine the final outcome of a far reaching restructuring in the french defence industry and has major implications for the entire sector in europe.. like a master chess player, the state must look several moves ahead, decide what sort of defence industry it wants to see in a few years' time, and ensure the decision will be seen as fair to all involved.. government sources said on friday that the decision, originally expected at the end of january, would probably slip into early february because the government was studying in great detail all the elements of the politically sensitive dossier that involves europe's biggest defence electronics company.. "the decision will be taken shortly, but not today. we are still studying all possibilities," said an official source.. "the decision will have to be taken by the cabinet. at the moment there is no proposal to send to the ministers. i could not tell you when exactly that will happen," he added.. prime minister alain juppe is anxious to avoid another embarassment like the one he suffered on december when the government had to suspend an earlier privatisation plan under which thomson csf would have gone to conglomerate lagardere groupe.. that deal involved the privatisation of the thomson group, which included both a percent stake in thomson csf and percent of consumer electronics group thomson multimedia (tmm).. the state was forced to call off the plan because the independent privatisation commission balked at the terms of a sale of tmm to south korea's daewoo electronics.. the cancellation outraged the korean, who called the decision racist and prompted an angry call for explanation from president kim young sam.. since then the french government has decided to separate the sales of tmm and thomson csf.. the ultimate aim of the government is to have a strong defence industry able to supply its armed forces with state of the art weaponry and play a leading role in europe and on the world scene.. a year ago, president jacques chirac announced a wide ranging restructuring of the french defence industry around a merged group of aerospatiale and dassault aviation for aerospace, and thomson csf for electronics.. in france alone, any such restructuring would affect the business of lagardere, owner of matra espace defense with british aerospace plc as a partner, alcatel alsthom and its ally gec plc, and smaller groups such as sagem and compagnie des signaux.. with a public sale through a market float, thomson csf management will have its hands free to pursue its own negotiations about future alliances while interested partners can acquire stakes on the market.. but this may mean that a foreign cash rich group from elsewhere in europe or from the u.s. or asia could buy itself into the talks.. with a private placement there are two main options.. one is by choosing candidates for a sale using a "cahier de charges" a sort of bidding book comprising price, intended strategy and commitments on jobs and investments.. this would leave the government with the biggest influence on the outcome, but also with the biggest responsibilty.. another procedure, rare in france, would be to auction the state's percent stake in thomson csf among qualified bidders, putting the emphasis on price and ensuring the greatest possible revenues for the state at a time france is trying to reduce its public deficits ahead of monetary union..