french food group saint louis on tuesday tightened its grip on the spanish sugar sector by acquiring a percent stake in spain's biggest sugar company and second largest food group ebro agricolas.. analysts welcomed the move and saint louis shares closed . percent higher at , francs ($.) on the paris bourse while the cac blue chip index ended . percent higher.. "i think they want to have a controlling stake in spanish sugar making but i do not believe that the political powers there will allow them to do so quickly. they have to go slow," said a paris based food sector analyst.. the company's generale sucriere unit bought the percent stake from banco santander. spanish newspapers said the deal was for . billion pesetas ($. million).. a saint louis spokesman declined to comment on the price but said ebro had a market value of billion pesetas, annual sales of billion pesetas and a market share of percent.. saint louis already has a stake of about percent in sociedad general de azucarera de espana (azucarera), spain's second largest sugar group.. the two spanish groups said in december they were working on a merger which would create the european union's fifth largest sugar group. ebro bought a . percent stake in azucarera from bank banco central hispano (bch) in november.. saint louis chairman daniel melin has said he wants to have a stake of to percent in the merged group, which would produce percent of spain's european union sugar quota.. "we would now have a percent stake in a merged group which is in line with our policy. we do not want to rise above percent because we would have to make a bid for the rest. we want to be a shareholder, not an operator," saint louis spokesman olivier labesse said.. spain's ministry of agriculture has in the past blocked attempts by the french group to increase its stake in azucarera as part of a general policy of stopping foreign companies taking control of the spanish sugar market.. "i believe saint louis will try to get a majority and restructure the new company where there is a lot of scope for cost savings. the spanish ministry may be against it and they can huff and puff but i do not really see how they can block it," a london based analyst said.. "there will be a lot of political opposition to a majority stake," said dominique bastien of brokerage pinatton wargny.. bch has sold another percent in ebro to a savings bank, caja de salamanca. the kuwait investment office (kio) is ebro's largest shareholder with a percent stake, while state owned food group mercase is expected to increase its . percent holding by buying bch's remaining . percent stake.. dresdner kleinwort benson financial analyst charles manso welcomed the ebro deal and said he was reviewing his saint louis recommendation and might raise it from "hold".. "this is the second bit of good news in two days. we have to factor that in. i think today's deal is slightly earnings enhancing," manso said.. on monday, saint louis said it was closing its sugar plant at bresles in france as part of a rationalisation of its production structure.. "the new management has been in place for months now and they are doing the right things," manso said.. saint louis is the fourth largest sugar group in europe behind germany's suedzucker, britain's tate and lyle plc and france's eridania beghin say.. the group is controlled by bank worms et cie, which has a . percent stake and italy's ifil spa, an agnelli family finance company, with a . percent stake. ($=. peseta) ($=. french franc).