france's rhone poulenc sa said on thursday its net income grew . percent to . billion francs ($. million), but called this an insufficient level.. chairman jean rene fourtou denied market rumours the company was on the look out for acquisitions, sought a merger or planned to split its chemicals and pharmaceuticals activities.. he told a news conference the group would focus on internal growth and he maintained his target of an increase in earnings per share of percent, before exceptionals, from . francs in .. fourtou said the group would in exceed its planned two year asset sale programme of billion francs, which stood at . billion at the end of , and would slash debt to below percent of equity, from in and in .. sales were three percent higher at . billion francs and operating income rose . percent to . billion. the gross dividend was increased by . percent to . francs per share.. the profit figure was in line with analysts' expectations and rhone poulenc shares closed . percent lower at . francs while the cac blue chip index was up . percent.. "this is an encouraging figure, but it remains insufficient for a company of our size," fourtou said about the profit.. he said there were three negative elements in the group's results the recall of albumin products at centeon, a worldwide crisis in polyester which reduced operating income by million francs, and a very low price of titanium oxide which had a million franc negative impact.. centeon is a joint venture between germany's hoechst ag and rhone's percent owned pharmaceuticals unit rhone poulenc rorer.. finance director jean pierre tirouflet said that while the negative effects would persist in the first quarter and perhaps first half of , he saw an improvement in operating results of these activities.. fourtou said that while improving profitablilty and cutting debt was his main priority, he dismissed rumours of a merger, split up or capital increase.. "i can confirm we do not plan a major acquisition in . we have never had so many opportunities for internal growth," he said. "i can also confirm that we have no plans for a capital increase, as is being rumored, nor do we envisage a de merger.". he said later that his company was not interested in buying elf aquitaine's health and beauty unit sanofi nor in linking up with this company.. "firstly, as far as i understand, sanofi is not for sale. but elf has said it is willing to go below percent," he said. "i want to make clear that we are not interested in an acquisition of sanofi nor in a link up with this company.". fourtou added that while rhone wanted better access to the japanese and other far eastern markets, the company had dropped its previous goal of finding a japanese takeover candidate and was now focusing on joint ventures.. ($=. french franc).