china said monday that it restrained inflation while maintaining strong economic growth in and it predicted it will do even better next year despite soaring government sector losses and slumping individual incomes.. the state statistical bureau quoted preliminary figures showing china's gross domestic product grew at an estimated . percent to . trilliion yuan ($ billion) while inflation fell to . percent from . percent.. despite soaring losses in the state sector and falling incomes for many urban households, the statistics showed china's economy had returned safely to earth after a period of high inflation and runaway growth, bureau spokesman ye zhen said.. "the national economy maintained its rapid and stable growth, indicating a successful 'soft landing,'" ye told a news conference in beijing.. china will do even better in , he said.. "preliminary estimates show overall growth will continue with the same stability and high speed as this year," he said.. annual economic growth in was expected to rise to . percent, while inflation which soared to a communist era high of . percent in will stay at this year's level, ye said.. china has set a target of . percent growth for to try to cool the economy, down from . percent last year and a sizzling . percent the previous year.. the . percent figure for retail price inflation, china's benchmark price index, was well below the government's percent target for the year.. consumer price inflation was estimated at about . percent, compared with . percent in .. while some economists have expressed doubts about the accuracy of beijing's inflation figures, it was clear that once fierce price rises have been largely controlled, said jason kwok, chief economist at citibank hong kong and china.. "it all tends to suggest that the macroeconomy is doing very well this year," kwok said in a telephone interview.. two recent interest rate cuts and china's second half turnaround of an earlier poor export performance meant growth could edge up next year even without a loosening of beijing's month old tight credit policy, kwok said.. stable growth next year was likely to receive an external boost from an expected upward trend in exports, which the statistical bureau said had powered china to an estimated $ billion trade surplus in , he said.. beijing will keep the lid on credit growth and continue to put high priority on restraining price rises, ye said..