ivory coast has received three formal proposals for building new cocoa processing factories but no approvals have yet been notified, ivorian commodities minister guy alain gauze said on friday.. "there are projects involving canatalou, stf ci and cargill," gauze told reuters after three days of cocoa sector reform talks with international cocoa organisation, donor and ivorian officials. "all have submitted formal proposals to the government which are being considered," he added.. ivory coast aims to process annually percent of its cocoa production it wants stabilised at , tonnes a year.. in / (oct sept) an unexpectedly large , tonne mid crop (april sept) took output to a . million tonne record.. total / season output is expected to be over a million tonnes and higher, depending on the shape of the mid crop.. rumours of factory plans surfaced in late with many firms said to be interested without deals signed.. french perpignan based confectioner cantalou, which makes cemoi brands, has submitted proposals for building a , tonnes of beans a year capcity plant.. an ivorian firm, stf ci, and a french partner are discussing building a , tonnes to , tonnes capacity plant for exporting cocoa butter and liquor exports to a chinese chocolate factory under construction.. u.s based commodities giant cargill, in discussions with ivorian cocoa exporter sicc for construction of a third plant, has also submitted plans to ivory coast's government.. its capacity would be over , tonnes a year according to industry sources.. sicc told reuters its first processing project was likely to take shape in early . the firm handles a total of , tonnes of cocoa in / for clients including cargill's netherlands processing subsidiary gherkens.. "we cannot think of handling that much without going into processing. we want to start in and are now at the decision stages with our partners," deputy director guillaume adome told reuters in an interview.. one european processor industry in abidjan for cocoa talks said he was surprised that a , tonne plant would be used for cocoa butter as well as powder production.. "it seems a bit on the small side for that," he said.. other industry delgates to the cocoa talks said it would be difficult to built plants by the end of but not impossible.. philippe mian, technical advisor to prime minister daniel kablan duncan, yesterday told reuters all three plans were firm but that other factory plan proposals also existed.. "procurement stages are advanced so it would be possible," he said, referring to the end of date.. mian presided over of three days of consultative committee cocoa reform talks which ended in abidjan on friday during which cocoa processing and cocoa quality were discussed.. gauze told reuters ivory coast would be on target to meet its home processing goal if the plans went ahead.. ivory coast currently has three processing factories with capacity for , tonnes. one is expected to increase capacity by , tonnes by taking ivorian total capacity to , tonnes.. if all three plant proposals are given government approval capacity would rise top a maximum of around , tonnes.. some industry observers have said ivory coast's processing target is unattainable.. local procesing of beans is part of an overall policy to add value to exports while taking low quality mid crop (april sept) beans off the international market.. "most output would have no effect on this year as it usually takes up to a year to build a normal plant," said one local processing official.. abidjan newroom + .