ivorian coffee exports are set to rise in late february after world price increases but poor quality could mean only , tonnes of the / season's crop is marketed, industry sources say.. "i really cannot see much more than , tonnes being exportable this year," one port quality analyst told reuters.. industry sources expect exports to take off before march.. "there are a good number of shipments for late february," a san pedro based exporter said. "people are waking up because of the prices but exports now are still minimal.". existing contracts would sustain export volumes into march and april, he added. "the rest (of / exports) depends on which way the dollar moves," he said.. ivory coast opened its / coffee season on november , delayed from around october , in an attempt to set guide farmgate prices closer to then plummeting world spot rates.. upcountry buying and exports were minimal in late as bankers were reluctant to fund coffee buying and put up export guarantees as world prices and local bean quality crashed.. upcountry buyers said farmers had taken little care over selecting beans during late harvesting. subsequent rains and long storage had led to deterioration and slowed down sorting.. "for every tonnes of grade two coffee exported you need to sift , tonnes," said one forwarder in abidjan.. arrivals by early february are estimated to be upwards of , tonnes with exports lagging at , tonnes.. quality in / has varied widely by region with northwestern coffee seen by buyers as best. largely unusable black beans were proving a problem, they said.. "in some places we have seen percent black beans," said one buyer. "black beans and debris are still slowing grading.". an exporter said. "ivory coast can only condition , tonnes of coffee each month so exports of that amount would be very good.". in /, ivorian coffee exports totalled , tonnes by the end of february with only , tonnes exported in february itself.. exports then picked up to around , tonnes in march and , tonnes in april. arrivals data were less clear.. ivory coast exported , tonnes of its total , tonnes / crop and has forecast a total crop of , tonnes for this year. some upcountry buyers expect , tonnes or more.. ivorian coffee marketing usually does not get underway until peak cocoa arrivals tail off after january as stored cocoa deteriorates faster than coffee.. one coffee plantation manager in central ivory coast said later season arrivals could be lower than expected if dry conditions were not broken by rain.. "there is a risk of damage to coffee trees but cocoa is holding on well. we need a couple of rains," he added.. a light harmattan wind followed by hot weather settled over ivory coast in late january. rains since have been scant.. "rains for january are percent down on normal," the plantation managter said by telephone on friday. "we make a little clearing around the trunk (of the tree) to allow watering while the threat of dessication persists," he added.. weeds had been allowed to grow up around young bushes to protect them from direct sun, he said.. a report for ivory coast on sector liberalisation and quality by a private british consultant was ready at the end of january but late fee payment meant it had not been delivered.. "last year exporters took anything so farmers have got out of the habit of maintaining trees," said one gagnoa based buyer.. abidjan newsroom + .