rains favouring ivorian cocoa midcrop development ended abruptly in early february but strong / midcrop (april sept) harvests are still expected, weather and crop analysts said on monday.. "even if dry weather continues into march the trees will probably not suffer any stress," said one crop expert. "soil water levels are sufficient so the only danger is dust covering the leaves," he added.. weather data showed a total of . mm of rain fell at weather stations monitored in the first ten days of february compared to . mm at the end of january and mm for the same day period in /.. a month with less than mm of rain is considered "dry".. dry weather can harm cocoa trees and shrink harvest volumes.. dust arriving with dry harmattan desert weather seen since late january could reduce photosynthesis and cause defoliation, the crop expert said.. "winds have dried surface soil but, if the dust is washed off, the trees could hang on up to the first week of march without suffering," said the crop expert.. temperatures in cocoa producing countries usually range between a minimum of degrees centigrade and a maximum of degrees.. ivorian temperatures over the weekend reached degrees in some central and northern areas as dry desert harmattan weather continued.. recent rains have varied widely between regions. over percent of average rainfall was seen in some cocoa areas in january while others registered a deficit.. "rains are percent down but cocoa trees have not suffered," said a plantation farmer near gagnoa.. rains of mm a week until april would be need for maximum midcrop harvests, he added.. a weather analyst expected rains to pick up in late february.. "if cloud base had been a little lower at the weekend the clouds would have resulted in rain," said one weather analyst. "forecasting at the moment is particularly difficult as weather patterns are changing," he added.. above normal rainfall in ivory coast during december made cocoa bean drying difficult but helped midcrop flowering and pod development.. rains in january fell mostly around man, yamoussoukro and daloa. little rain fell along the south coast.. weather up to april for midcrop development will partly determine whether private crop estimates of up to . million tonnes of cocoa for /, or government forecasts of , tonnes, turn out to be right.. a unexpectedly large / midrop of , tonnes took ivory coast's total crop to a record . million tonnes.. data to february suggest , tonnes have already reached ivorian ports in /.. "there is a lot of cocoa still around and midcrop prospects are still looking good despite the dryness," said a pod counter returning from upcountry.. abidjan newsroom + .