industry and crop analysts are sticking to forecasts of a total ivorian / (oct sept) cocoa crop of well over one million tonnes though the government appears to say it will be less than that figure.. "we raised our forecast to . million tonnes in january from one million tonnes but really there could be . million tonnes," said one major buyer of ivorian cocoa.. ivorian agriculture minister lambert kouassi konan restated on wednesday in paris that ivory coast's total / crop would be less than one million tonnes in line with an earlier ivorian caistab marketing board estimate of , tonnes.. it was not immediately clear whether kouassi was referring to total arrivals of cocoa at ports, or beans considered to be of sufficient quality for export.. "that would certainly not be the total arrivals figure but it could be the export figure," said one port source.. "arrivals (of cocoa declared at ports) are already close to , tonnes (since october ) so we are really looking at a crop of not much less than last year," said another source.. sources close to the agriculture ministry said arrivals figures to february (since october ) stood at around , tonnes.. quality inspectors have pointed to generally good bean quality depite humidity problems.. the / cocoa season opened on october , about three weeks later than usual. exporters have said , , tonnes should be added to arrivals figures to give a cumulative arrival figure since october .. crop analysts expect ivory coast's main crop (oct sept) alone to match to the caistab's , tonnes full year forecast, but they said predictions of a promising mid crop (april sept) were still premature.. ivory coast is estimated to have produced a record . million tonnes in / after a larger than expected , tonnes mid crop.. prospects for this year's mid crop depend partly on rains over the next few weeks.. industry sources do not expect rejection of cocoa at port to reduce total exports significantly.. industry sources said undisclosed amounts of sub standard cocoa had been declared at ports but rejected as fair average quality (faq) or unexportable sub grade.. that would be either mixed in with better quality cocoa and exported, or bought by local factories.. rejection of cocoa could cut into total crop figures but industry sources say little is likely to go to waste.. "most is presented again for export. little goes to waste so it will be sold somehow," said one exporter, referring to humidity problems in early .. one set of figures circulating put arrivals to february at , tonnes, with close to , tonnes initially classified as sub grade, industry sources said.. ivory coast has said in the past it would process its lower quality mid crop cocoa locally to remove lower grades from world markets and add more value to exports.. "local factories will probably use about , tonnes this year so a certain proportion will be set aside for that," one source said.. factory capacity currently stands at around , tonnes although plans for more factories are reaching final stages.. foreign buyers recently voiced concern that poorer grades were being mixed in with export quality cocoa rather than being absorbed by local factories.. "the normal crop potential for ivory coast is around . million tonnes," said one port source. "take off , tonnes and you are not far off the one million figure," he added.. "the question is how much will be held back for next year to speculate on prices. that depends on how much money traders have to hand," he said.. abidjan newsroom + .