african coffee ministers meet on thursday to discuss cutting robusta exports following a january agreement among world producers, but some officials say disease and drought make cuts unnecessary in some countries.. african producers agreed after a january meeting of the association of coffee producing countries to cut robusta exports by a total of , kilo bags between january and june in an attempt to force up prices.. individual country quotas were left to be decided later.. "we shall be looking into the export programme in light of the rio (de janeiro) agreement and our objective is to ensure a transparent and effective implementation," said a spokesman for the inter african coffee organisation (iaco).. "the ministers will take a decision on how to allocate the share which falls on africa and how to deal with shortfalls," said iaco chief economist donald kaberuka. "we will also discuss the issue of non member countries.". eight countries will take part in the talks uganda, ivory coast, cameroon, kenya, zaire, tanzania, madagascar and ethiopia.. quotas for individual countries set at the meeting would not be made public.. "some people have said we will not make any cuts but that is not true," said kaberuka.. a uganda coffee development authority (ucda) official said this week that drought and disease had cut into that country's exports, making quotas unnecessary.. uganda is africa's largest robusta producer.. it produced around ,, kilo bags in against ,, in , according to iaco. ivory coast produced ,, and ,, over the same periods.. analysts in ivory coast say bean quality problems could mean no more than , , tonnes will be exported in / (oct sept) despite an official forecast of , tonnes.. ivorian exports by the end of january totalled little more than , tonnes. the season opened on november .. the coffee board of kenya, also citing drought and disease, has forecast a drop in production and earnings this year.. zaire's production has been cut by the conflict there since late ..