chad faces cereal shortages in but appeals for aid from one of the world's poorest nations have met sceptical responses from some foreign donors alleging mismanagement of available stocks.. chad asked donors to replenish , tonnes of emergency cereal stocks in a new year appeal by recently elected president idriss deby.. in the campaign year, leading to the country's first multiparty legislative elections in almost years in january, chad also acknowledged a shoot to kill policy against some criminals.. human rights groups told reuters petty grain pilferers had been summarily executed for stealing derisory amounts from public markets.. government making shortage worse. donors accuse officials in the arid landlocked state of making food shortages more acute.. the half desert country usually keeps , tonnes as an emergency buffer stock with another , tonnes for immediate emergency use.. "the problem is that stocks have been emptied for political reasons. there has been a problem with donors about that," said joseph alain charriere, the u.n. world food programme's representative in chad.. "that does not mean there will not be extreme hardship this year. it is very bad but not catastrophic." he told reuters.. the government says storehouses are precariously empty but the government's opponents point to vote buying.. "there are ways of making people's lives more comfortable around election time," said one opposition party leader and former national assembly leader jean alingue. "don't forget that percent of chadians live in the country and are mostly poor.". chad says shortage criticial. chadian officials say urgent action is required as women struggle to set aside private stocks at village level to tide over their families through chad's regular droughts.. the director of food security, ali adoum djourou, told reuters recently that shortages could last until october. he cited a rural development ministry report for december putting chad's / cereal deficit at just under , tonnes.. the united states aid agency usaid closed its chad bureau last year as part of wider cuts while european stock donations have recently dwindled out of a preference for boosting grass root production instead, say u.n. officials.. donors agree severe drought has hit the sahel region but they dispute food reserves are needed, pointing to a european early warning study putting sahel area shortages at , tonnes instead of the government's forecast of , tonnes.. while donors recognise the deteriorating food situation is serious they also point to non cereal food alternatives left out of food need calculations.. "all the elements that can lead to famine are nevertheless there," said charriere. "output is down, cereal prices are rising, and transportation is difficult. people will be forced to sell whatever they have goats and camels just to survive.". prices already surging. prices were already spinning out of control, even though some of that was caused by speculation.. "normally we would expect millet prices of , , cfa (francs) per kilos. now we are seeing , cfa and we expect the price to rise to , or , cfa in ," said charriere.. chad, one the world's poorest nations, puts its annual cereal consumption at over one million tonnes with output seen at , tonnes in /, against , last year and a record . million tonnes in /.. the population stands at . million from . million in and . million in .. fao says production of one staple cereal, berbere, used in calculations could prove to be higher that the , tonnes anticipated.. "about percent of the , deficit is really urgent," chad director pierre gence told reuters. "that would mean , tonnes.". donors say poor roads, armed banditry, and farmers switching to more lucrative cotton crops in the unaffected south have made prospects worse.. chad stepped up border patrols against rebel groups and smugglers around lake chad but donors say it is easier for some farmers to sell produce abroad when roads are closed by rains.. ($= cfa francs).