gold output from ivory coast's second mine, somiaf, is set to double over the next two years and could rise further as sulphide deposit studies are completed, an operations manager said on thursday.. "we just started on a (, tonne) new gold oxide lens which will take over a year to mine," operations manager joe hinzer told reuters. "we have a second lens close to it which we plan to blend in which could take one and half years.". somiaf (societe des mines d'afema) announced two new oxide deposits totalling , tonnes with a gold content of up to . grammes/tonne in early april after commissioning a doubling of factory capacity last month.. gold production is set to rise to kilos in / (oct sept) from kilos in / with calendar year yields of kilos () and (), hinzer said.. output could reach , , kilos in / and continue rising if new sulphide deposits under study for at least two more years proved to be exploitable, he said.. somiaf, is percent ownded by canada's eden roc, with another percent held by ivory coast. it owns one permit ( sq km) and manages two nearby exploration sites (, sq km) for a joint venture between state mining group sodemi and eden roc.. oxide deposits were being reassessed after recent management changes hinzer said in an interview this week, putting total recoverable oxide gold at , ounces.. "we are counting the marbles now but about percent of that is proven, probable or possible" he said.. average ore grade from the latest oxide deposit to be worked would mean an average gold grade of g/t at leach pads against . g/t last year, said hinzer.. somiaf, which employs permanent and temporary staff invested $ million to get operations underway in .. eden roc's new president mario caron will officially take control of somiaf during a visit pencilled in for may, said hinzer.. studies of gold suphide deposits are already advanced.. a $ million pre feasibility sulphide study could be completed in two to three years but the cost of a new plant to handle sulphide ore, on top of recent oxide capacity expansion, could reach $ million, said hinzer.. "there are no hard numbers but we hope to identify . million ounces of gold. when we have the figures we can move on to feasibility and factory plans," he added.. "we have drilled over , holes, or , metres," he added. "before feasibility studies we would need to put in another , metres of tests.". promising areas lay along a broken km strike within somiaf's exisitng permits, which in ivory coast are issued for three years and are renewable twice for two years.. oxide mining is open cast but sulphide deposits could mean ramp mining or other deeper deposit recovery techniques.. ivory coast's largest mine, societe des mines d'ity (smi), is also planning to dig deeper for growth, smi president yves palanque told reuters.. "we will reach the water table in two years and will need to buy new equipment to deal with wet mining," said palanque.. sub contractors mine the site but in two years smi will take direct control over operations.. production is running at . tonnes of pure gold per annum with . tonnes produced since and reserves put at tonnes. exploration to raise gold output is focused on a nearby square km block.. ivory coast is keen to develop mining to broaden its agriculture based economy and opened a mines commission this week to cut red tape for investors and prospectors.. around exploration permits have been issued to a total of up to firms, many of which have arrived since the introduction of a new mining code in .. abidjan newsroom, + .