ivorian port cocoa stocks stand at up to , tonnes as arrivals trickle in at about , tonnes a week, but april and brisk may exports will reduce levels, port sources said on friday.. "the main season (oct april) is over so arrivals will be down until early may," said a source. "some exporters have stock at the margins of (export) quality limits so they will be waiting to mix it with fresh mid crop (may sept).". sources put stocks at abidjan at , tonnes with , at the second port of san pedro.. exporters' agents said some exporters were short of cocoa for immediate shipment, but others said this represented a temporary commercial squeeze rather than a broader supply problem.. "smaller exporters may have bought contracts beyond their capacity, the caisse may have issued too many contacts or maybe a few exporters are holding large stocks," said one shipping manager. "i have people crying out for cocoa," he added.. another agent said, "we must wait and see if the caisse renews export licences if contracts are broken.". latest bean sizes were around beans per grams, against an export standard of with up to eight percent humidity, industry buyers said.. "bean sizes are tailing off now but smaller ones are still up country," said one.. exporters are gearing up for mid crop arrivals after returning from easter holidays, but crop analysts have not completed up country pod tallies to give an indication of volumes, they said.. early estimates range from , tonnes to well over ,, down on , in the / season, crop analysts said.. "if good rains now carry on and cherelles survive through april and may, i see no reason to be pessimistic," said one. "estimates will be out later in april but most pod counters will be up country in mid april.". some main crop could be held back to mix with mid crop to reach an overall export standard.. tree crop and declared mid crop could vary widely, he said.. warehouse stocks totalled up to , tonnes in early as exporters held back cocoa bought through auction for december contracts from the caistab marketing body.. auction prices were out of line with world rates before a rally ahead of march contracts, they said at the time.. abidjan newsroom + .