declared cocoa arrivals at ivorian ports for ivory coast's / (october april) main crop totalled , tonnes by april , close to record levels seen in the / season, exporters and crop analysts said.. the / main crop (ending april ) reached just over a million tonnes.. "arrivals are now at a trickle compared to last year but it is still possible the total (main crop) will reach a million by the end of the month," said one crop analyst.. exporters said cocoa was arriving at ivory coast's two ports abidjan and san pedro at a total of up to , tonnes a week, compared to , tonnes a week in /.. little or no main crop cocoa remained on south western plantations visited by reuters. "cocoa is now for the mid crop (usually smaller, poorer quality beans)," said one coastal area buyer.. ivory coast has forecast , tonnes for the / season but some private forecasters upgraded their full year predictions from that level to around . million tonnes after large arrivals in early .. last year, ivory coast produced a full year record of . million tonnes after a bumper , tonne mid crop (may september).. sources said ministry of agriculture data showed cocoa arrivals to april (from october ) stood at , tonnes about six percent down from ,, last year. another , tonnes or so should be added to the / figure as the season opened three weeks later than the usual october , they said.. other arrivals data seen by reuters gave similar figures.. "the latest figures i have from the caistab (cocoa and coffee marketing board) show arrivals at about , by april but that is after some downward adjustments for sub grade (inferior beans)," said one source.. arrivals to the end of the main crop in / were , tonnes, with weekly arrivals of under , tonnes.. trade sources say exporters usually over estimate arrivals early in the season to help secure bank finance, but square accounts later in the season by under declaring.. crop forecasters say declared arrivals in ivory coast can exceed tree crop harvests as quantities of cocoa are carried between seasons in the hope of price rises and to mix poor with good quality cocoa.. one cocoa buyer for ivorian exporter jean abile gal (jag) said the latest cocoa bean sizes averaged beans per grammes at san pedro, and at the main port, abidjan against an export standard of up to with less than eight percent humidity.. exporters said average humidity levels at both ports were below eight percent.. up country buyers' stores in coastal and south western areas were mostly empty, except for coffee, but larger warehouses at san pedro, including jag's, were still well stocked.. "there is nothing left. some exporters are desperate to meet contracts and cannot get cocoa," said one buyer. "cocoa harvested now is really for the mid crop (from may).". port forwarders' figures seen by reuters showed / cocoa volumes handled percent down on /, but managers said warehouse stocks for end april shipment would close the gap.. "it is very acceptable. we thought the gap could be twice that," said a manager for saga, san pedro's largest forwarder. "last year, arrivals figures were a lot more available so it has been harder to track.". cocoa bean shipments rose from , tonnes in february to , in march and at least another , tonnes was due to leave next week.. "some of what is left in stores will be for local processors (using around , tonnes of beans a year)," said one crop analyst.. saco, san pedro's only factory, had large volumes of produce stored in sheds with bagged cocoa under external awnings. cocoa product exports totalled around , tonnes for february and march.. several new warehouses are planned to increase port cocoa storage capacity. new factories are also in the pipeline.. exporters are now looking forward to pod counters' mid crop predictions, expected this month, and further news on ivory coast's intention to destroy illegal cocoa plantations in classified forest areas.. the country's minister for commodities, guy alain gauze, said earlier on friday in the netherlands that the upcoming mid crop would be somewhere near , tonnes..