ivory coast is set for a bumper / (october september) coffee crop because of favourable weather and better farm maintenance but buyers point to quality problems, industry and port sources said on wednesday.. with five months of the / season remaining, exporters and crop analysts expect a total crop of up to , tonnes, against , tonnes last year and ivory coast's official forecast of , tonnes.. port arrivals by april totalled , tonnes compared with , tonnes by the same time last year, suggesting a return to pre s levels.. exporters said markets would be found for the increased supply of poor grades. but one quality inspector said it was unlikely the full / crop would be shipped because of wastage and rejection.. precise warehouse stocks were not known but the latest export and arrivals figures suggested stocks of well over , tonnes, after allowing for offtake by local roasters.. "there's still more coffee upcountry but it is coming down slowly," one upcountry buyer told reuters. "farmers are holding back because buyers have been offering such low prices.". coffee marketing started slowly after the season opened later than usual in mid november. a fall in world prices in december, stricter bank lending policies for export financing, and poor quality slowed movement of the crop from farms to ports.. ivory coast set a farmgate price of cfa ($.) a kg for / but slashed the rate as world prices dropped in late , leaving the caistab state marketing board with a large paper loss after domestic price stabilisation payments to exporters.. quality problems this year have meant buyers offered farmers as little as cfa per kg compared to the caistab's guideline price of cfa. but one industry buyer paid over cfa for premium quality beans.. "farmers harvested the coffee in october but no one started buying until a couple of months ago," said one crop analyst. "coffee is usually harvested in january (after cocoa) so there was a long storage period and the beans turned black.". the output rise was caused by mild weather in the january march flowering period. that was boosted by a peak in the general three year cycle which sees trees yielding a weak, then moderate and finally strong crop.. "prices were better in / so farmers took more care over pruning trees...and general maintenance," one analyst said. "that is paying off this year as tree yields have gone up.". the manager of one plantation said better maintenance meant some farms were yielding kg a hectare, compared to last year.. arrivals are running far ahead of / exports which reached a cumulative total of , tonnes by end march, compared to , tonnes from a smaller crop by the same date in /.. exporters have built up stores which need sorting and regrading.. "the season will be twice as long as usual," one buyer in the productive northwestern district around man told reuters in january when coffee marketing usually starts.. rains in december hampered drying of beans. farmers had also harvested a mixture of ripe and unripe cherries and had not separated them before sale, buyers said.. upcountry stores visited by reuters in mid april had small stocks of coffee awaiting grading or regrading. some coffee had been stored loose because of a shortage of jute bags supplied by exporters.. ivory coast aims to boost exports to the level of , tonnes per year seen before the early s when a drop in world prices discouraged maintenance of trees by farmers.. buyers and crop analysts said plans to rehabilitate plantations, funded by donors, had yet to have any noticeable effect.. "they may be talking about it, but no farmers i have met have received any payments," said one crop analyst..