port arrivals of / ivorian cocoa totalled around . million tonnes by may , down from . million by that date in the record / year, port sources said on tuesday.. weekly arrivals at abidjan and ivory coast's second port, san pedro, dropped sharply to , tonnes in the week to may from about , during the final week of the main crop (oct april), raising concern that the size of the may september mid crop would be disappointing.. "the mid crop has been weak so far but we are still optimistic," said one abidjan based crop analyst. "some people thought it was going to be a bit late but we are optimistic as july and august will be the most important time (for arrivals).". ivory coast's main crop totalled around . million tonnes by its april close, against about . million tonnes in / when a larger than expected mid crop of just under , tonnes took that year's total to a record of around . million tonnes.. early forecasts of ivory coast's / crop proved to be cautious as arrivals by the end of the main crop had exceeded ivory coast's official full year (oct sept) forecast of up to , tonnes.. the / crop is not expected by local crop analysts to set a new record but it will not be far behind if early private mid crop forecasts of , tonnes prove to be correct.. "we are still fairly optimistic. our figure is at the higher end of that range but we may cut by just a little," said the crop analyst.. other crop analysts said recent talk of a mid crop as small as , tones had been based on weak may and early june arrivals and signs of poor bean quality and sizes.. "what was around was small but i think it (bean quality) has improved," said one analyst. "it should now be possible to get beans of to (beans per grams).". ivory coast's export grade standard of beans per grams sometimes eludes exporters during the mid crop, when bean sizes usually decline along with harvest volumes. exporters last year were surprised by high bean quality well into the mid crop period.. export quality inspectors have reported bean sizes in a range with little evidence of humidity problems.. torrential rains since mid may have not raised bean humidity levels above the eight percent permitted for export grades. farmers had problems drying main crop beans during heavy december rains, leading to some quality problems at port.. crop analysts also report favourable signs for next year's / main cocoa crop, but add that no reliable indication for the first half of that year would appear on trees until late july.. "we are only looking at the very beginning and it looks fairly good," said one. "nothing untoward has happened and rumours of a disastrous crop are probably wishful thinking. no one is yet in a position to know.". abidjan newsroom + .