the el nino weather pattern developing in the pacific could damage west african cocoa crops, but the extent of any losses is hard to predict because of local weather and crop patterns, industry analysts said on thursday.. "sometimes it has effects on yields and sometimes it doesn't," said one crop analyst, referring to seven other el nino events since one of the most damaging in .. on tuesday the u.s. national oceanic and atmospheric administration said weather in the pacific had triggered an el nino weather pattern that would probably affect world crops.. cocoa futures for july contracts spiked at a new high of , stg a tonne in london trading on thursday but long term price effects would depend on traders' views on supply deficits into / (oct/sept).. el nino is the name given to a reversal of ocean water circulation in the southern pacific. the phenomenon, which scientists say is becoming more common, is generally associated with droughts in parts of africa, australia, indonesia and south america.. in more northerly countries, el ninos can spell rain.. el nino cut nigerian / cocoa production from a possible , tonnes to around , tonnes, with ghana's crop cut to around , tonnes from ,, say analysts.. "el nino can cause enormous havoc. depending on when it hits it can affect one or two years' main crop," one analyst told reuters in abidjan.. ivory coast was largely unaffected in / as widespread tree plantings offset el nino damage, leaving a stable crop trend.. a second wave of prolonged el nino damage arose between and , when bush fires caused by abnormally dry weather swept through ivorian plantations.. "in / yields were good so prices were not seriously affected," said one analyst. collapsing eastern european consumption after the fall of the berlin wall coupled with plentiful world stocks had dampened supply fears, he added.. "now there is a deficit forecast and consumption is again expanding in asia," he said.. uk based trader ed &amp; f man in its may report said, "unless the weather in west africa improves, the cocoa market faces a substantial drawdown in stocks in /".. man forecasts a supply deficit of , tonnes by the end of the / season and a percent rise in world grindings to ,, tonnes.. other analysts say it is too early to guess the effects of the el nino.. "if the el nino develops and hits in late there will be no effect on the cocoa. the main crop (oct april) will already be on the trees," one said. "(it) would only affect next year's mid crop (may sept).". one crop analyst said scant rains in the / crop year (oct sept) resulted from el nino weather but failed to damage crops because thick cloud cover over west africa prevented a drop in soil moisture.. heavy rains have fallen throughout ivory coast over the past three weeks.. "people have not got terribly excited about it in the past," he added, referring to the effects of the previous el nino reported in . "futures may now be rising as people take on insurance cover but that stock can easily be dumped back into the market later if necessary.". abidjan newsroom + .