plans to build cocoa factories in ivory coast will take national processing capacity to , tonnes in / (oct sept), in line with a target of , tonnes by , ivory coast's commodities minister said on friday.. "if you take into account cargill, touton, cemoi, stf ci, orebi and shanghai we will reach , tonnes in /," commodities minister guy alain gauze told reuters on friday, referring to chocolate processors' plans to build factories.. gauze was speaking after a meeting on friday with the world chocolate trade body oiccc (office international du cacao, du chocolat et de la confiserie) on cocoa quality and supply.. ivory coast is the world's largest cocoa exporter and aims to process percent of its annual crop buy the year . it produced a record . million tonned in / and is set to harvest over . million tonnes in /. "callebaut barry will raise its capacity to , tonnes from , tonnes this year, so by the year we will reach ,," gauze added.. callebaut barry already owns two factories in ivory coast and accounts for over a half of ivorian annual processing capacity, which is set to rise to at least , by .. cocoa accounts for percent of ivorian export earnings but the government aims to diversify the country's economy away from agriculture by encouraging commodities processing, mining and energy sectors.. the oiccc was in ivory coast for the first of what it plans to be regular talks with the government on cococa issues, including bean quality and security of supplies.. oiccc spokesman tom harison told reporters afterwards that he welcomed ivorian plans to raise cocoa processing capacity to , tonnes, or percent of annual harvests, by the year as healthy competition for european grinders.. other delegates were more sceptical.. "the question is how much the ivorian farmer will have to give up to pay for it," said one, referring to tax and subsidy sweeteners to investors for building new factories.. the oiccc sees world demand growing at three percent in / and sees "immense potential for extra (chocolate) demand in eastern europe and asia.". "we believe in this. we have put our money in (to factories)," said harrison, adding that ivory coast was well placed as a supplier to benefit from stabilising or declining cocoa production in other major producing countries, such as brazil and indonesia.. but he pointed to an ageing population in europe, health concerns over chocolate and stricter advertising rules which he said threatened future demand in some regions.. "people are having fewer children, and children are big consumers," he added. "we are spending a lot of money to protect ourselves.". he said producer country concerns over use of up to five percent non cocoa fat in chocolate in europe was a minor issue next to public perception of chocolate as a "product which makes you fat and makes your teeth fall out.". gauze has fought european plans to allow non cocoa fat usage, putting resulting demand for beans at between , tonnes and , tonnes.. ivory coast fears a fall in cocoa usage would hit its bean and processed product exports a view not shared by some chocolate manufacturers in europe and the united states.. "future demand for chocolate is goind to come in a wider and wider range of products," he added, saying that the oiccc did not have a common position on use of non cocoa fats.. overall cocoa consumption was rising despite use of synthetic and vegetable substitutes for cocoa fats, he added.. abidjan newsroom, + .