rsr, a ras like gene homologous to krev (smga/rapa). role in the development of cell polarity and interactions with the ras pathway in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . the saccharomyces cerevisiae ras like gene rsr is particularly closely related to the mammalian gene krev (also known as smga and rapa). rsr was originally isolated as a multicopy suppressor of a cdc mutation, which causes an inability to bud or establish cell polarity. deletion of rsr itself does not affect growth but causes a randomization of bud position. we have now constructed mutant alleles of rsr encoding proteins with substitutions of val for gly at position (analogous to constitutively activated ras proteins) or asn for lys at position (analogous to a dominant negative ras protein). rsrval could not restore a normal budding pattern to an rsr deletion strain but could suppress a cdc mutation when overexpressed. rsrasn could randomize the budding pattern of a wild type strain even in low copy number but was not lethal even in high copy number. these and other results suggest that rsrp functions only in bud site selection and not in subsequent events of polarity establishment and bud formation, that this function involves a cycling between gtp bound and gdp bound forms of the protein, and that the suppression of cdc involves direct interaction between rsrp[gtp] and cdcp. functional homology between rsrp and krev p was suggested by the observations that expression of the latter protein in yeast cells could both suppress a cdc mutation and randomize the budding pattern of wild type cells. as krev overexpression can suppress ras induced transformation of mammalian cells, we looked for effects of rsr on the s. cerevisiae ras pathway. although no suppression of the activated rasval allele was observed, overexpression of rsrval suppressed the lethality of strains lacking ras gene function, apparently through a direct activation of adenyl cyclase. this interaction of rsrp with the effector of ras in s. cerevisiae suggests that krev may revert ras induced transformation of mammalian cells by affecting the interaction of ras p with its effector.