activity of phosphoforms and truncated versions of ndt, a checkpoint regulated sporulation specific transcription factor of saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . ndt contributes to the highly regulated cascade of sequential gene expression that directs spore formation in saccharomyces cerevisiae. this dna binding transcriptional activator, which is responsible for the expression of a set of middle sporulation specific genes, is a target of the meiotic recombination checkpoint. triggering of this checkpoint prevents phosphorylation and accumulation of active ndt. in this study we have investigated the requirements for the activation function of ndt by exploring the role of phosphorylation in the regulation of its activity and by examining the effect of c terminal truncations. of three phosphoforms of ndt that we resolved, which we refer to as p approximately ndt&quot;, p approximately ndt', and p approximately ndt in order of increasing electrophoretic mobility, the p approximately ndt&quot; and p approximately ndt' isoforms correlated with active ndt. in particular, p approximately ndt&quot; was present in lysates from wild type sporulating cells and in cells that bypassed checkpoint mediated arrest as a result of mutations in rad, sum, or swe, or overexpression of ndt. p approximately ndt' was the slowest migrating isoform that accumulated in delta ime/delta ime delta sum/delta sum cells in sporulation medium and in mitotic cells that ectopically expressed ndt. nonphosphorylated ndt and p approximately ndt, which had a slightly lower mobility than nonphosphorylated ndt and was the predominant phosphoform present in checkpoint arrested cells, correlated with inactive ndt. these data are consistent with the notion that extensive phosphorylation, but not ime dependent phosphorylation, of ndt is required for its activity. examination of the effect of increasingly extensive truncation of the c terminal region of ndt revealed that some functions of ndt were more sensitive to a reduction in its activity than others. in particular, we found that a truncated version of ndt that lacked the last residues was able to promote expression of some middle sporulation specific genes, but could not direct spore formation. full activity, however, could be restored to this version of ndt by increasing its level of expression.