role of ndt, sum, and swe as targets of the meiotic recombination checkpoint that control exit from pachytene and spore formation in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . the meiotic recombination checkpoint, which is triggered by defects in recombination or chromosome synapsis, arrests sporulating cells of saccharomyces cerevisiae at pachytene by preventing accumulation of active clb cdc. we compared the effects of manipulating the three known targets of the meiotic recombination checkpoint, ndt, swe, and sum, in dmc arrested cells. ndt is an activator of a set of middle sporulation specific genes (msgs), which includes clb genes and genes involved in spore wall formation; swe inhibits clb cdc activity; and sum is a repressor of ndt and some msgs. activation of the checkpoint leads to inhibition of ndt activity and to stabilization of swe and sum. thus, dmc arrested cells fail to express msgs, arrest at pachytene, and do not form spores. our study shows that dmc/dmc sum/sum cells expressed msgs prematurely and at high levels, entered the meiotic divisions efficiently, and in some cases formed asci containing mature spores. in contrast, dmc/dmc swe/swe cells expressed msgs at a very low level, were inefficient and delayed in entry into the meiotic divisions, and never formed mature spores. we found that cells of dmc/dmc sum/sum ndt/ndt and dmc/dmc swe/swe ndt/ndt strains arrested at pachytene and that dmc/dmc or dmc/dmc swe/swe cells overexpressing ndt were less efficient in bypassing checkpoint mediated arrest than dmc/dmc sum/sum cells. our results are consistent with previous suggestions that increased clb cdc activity, caused by mutation of swe or by an ndt dependent increase in clb expression, allows dmc/dmc cells to exit pachytene and that subsequent upregulation of ndt activity by a feedback mechanism promotes entry into the meiotic divisions. spore morphogenesis, however, requires efficient and timely activation of msgs, which we speculate was achieved in dmc/dmc sum/sum cells by premature expression of ndt.