identification of rad mutations that confer differential defects in mutation avoidance, repeat tract instability, and flap cleavage.. . in eukaryotes, the nuclease activity of radp (fenp) is thought to play a critical role in lagging strand dna replication by removing ribonucleotides present at the ' ends of okazaki fragments. genetic analysis of saccharomyces cerevisiae also has identified a role for radp in mutation avoidance. raddelta mutants display both a repeat tract instability phenotype and a high rate of forward mutations to canavanine resistance that result primarily from duplications of dna sequences that are flanked by direct repeats. these observations suggested that radp activities in dna replication and repair could be altered by mutagenesis and specifically assayed. to test this idea, we analyzed two rad alleles, rad gs and rad gd, that were identified in a screen for mutants that displayed repeat tract instability and mutator phenotypes. in chromosome stability assays, rad gs strains displayed a higher frequency of repeat tract instabilities relative to can duplication events; in contrast, the rad gd strains displayed the opposite phenotype. in biochemical assays, rad gsp displayed a weak exonuclease activity but significant single and double flap endonuclease activities. in contrast, rad gdp displayed a significant double flap endonuclease activity but was devoid of exonuclease activity and showed only a weak single flap endonuclease activity. based on these observations, we hypothesize that the rad gs mutant phenotypes resulted largely from specific defects in nuclease function that are important for degrading bubble intermediates, which can lead to dna slippage events. the rad gd mutant phenotypes were more difficult to reconcile to a specific biochemical defect, suggesting a structural role for radp in dna replication and repair. since the mutants provide the means to relate nuclease functions in vitro to genetic characteristics in vivo, they are valuable tools for further analyses of the diverse biological roles of radp.