the spa related protein, sphp, is important for polarized growth in yeast.. . the saccharomyces cerevisiae protein sphp is both structurally and functionally related to the polarity protein, spap. sphp and spap are predicted to share three amino acid domains each exceeding % sequence identity, and the amino terminal domain of each protein contains a direct repeat common to homo sapiens and caenorhabditis elegans protein sequences. sph and spa deleted cells possess defects in mating projection morphology and pseudohyphal growth. sph(delta) spa(delta) double mutants also exhibit a strong haploid invasive growth defect and an exacerbated mating projection defect relative to either sph(delta) or spa(delta) single mutants. consistent with a role in polarized growth, sphp localizes to growth sites in a cell cycle dependent manner. sphp concentrates as a cortical patch at the presumptive bud site in unbudded cells, at the tip of small, medium and large buds, and at the bud neck prior to cytokinesis. in pheromone treated cells, sphp localizes to the tip of the mating projection. proper localization of sphp to sites of active growth during budding and mating requires spap. sphp interacts in the two hybrid system with three mitogen activated protein (map) kinase kinases (mapkks). mkkp and mkkp, which function in the cell wall integrity/cell polarization map kinase pathway, and step, which operates in the pheromone and pseudohyphal signaling response pathways. sphp also interacts weakly with ste, the mapkkk known to activate ste. moreover, two hybrid interactions between sph and ste and ste occur independently of ste, a proposed scaffolding protein which interacts with several members of this map kinase module. we speculate that spap and sphp may function during pseudohyphal and haploid invasive growth to help tether this map kinase module to sites of polarized growth. our results indicate that spap and sphp comprise two related proteins important for the control of cell morphogenesis in yeast.