g cyclin degradation. the pest motif of yeast cln is necessary, but not sufficient, for rapid protein turnover.. . the residue cln protein, like the other g cyclins of saccharomyces cerevisiae, is a very unstable protein. this instability is thought to play a critical role in regulating cell cycle progression. the carboxyl terminal domains of cln and the other g cyclins contain sequences rich in pro, glu (and asp), ser, and thr (so called pest motifs) that have been postulated to make up the signals that are responsible for the rapid degradation of these and other unstable proteins. to test this hypothesis, the carboxyl terminal residues of cln were fused to the c terminus of a reporter enzyme, a truncated form of human thymidine kinase (htk delta ). the resulting chimeric protein (htk delta cln) retained thymidine kinase activity but was markedly less stable than htk, htk delta , or an htk beta galactosidase fusion protein, as judged by enzyme assay, immunoblotting with anti htk antibodies, pulse chase analysis of the radiolabeled polypeptides, and ability to support the growth of a thymidylate auxotroph (cdc mutant) on thymidine containing medium. thus, the presence of the cln pest domain was sufficient to destabilize a heterologous protein. furthermore, the half life of htk delta cln was similar to that of authentic cln, and the rate of degradation of neither protein was detectably enhanced by treatments known to cause g arrest, including exposure of mata haploids to alpha factor mating pheromone and shifting cdcts and cdcts mutants to the restrictive temperature. these results suggest that the major signals responsible for cln instability are confined to its c terminal third. because htk delta cln and cln were expressed from heterologous promoters yet their half lives both in asynchronous cultures and when arrested at various cell cycle stages were always similar, the cln pest domain contains a signal for rapid protein turnover that is constitutively active and operative throughout the cell cycle. removal of the codons that encode the most prominent pest like segment from either htk delta cln or cln decreased the turnover rate of the resulting proteins, as expected; however, an htk delta chimera containing only this residue segment was not detectably destabilized, suggesting that this pest sequence, when removed from its normal context, is not a self contained determinant of protein instability.