intel corp., the world's biggest maker of computer chips, said tuesday its workers received about $ million in cash bonuses, profit sharing and retirement pay for the company's record year in .. "the average employee received a minimum of about percent payout over their base salary for the year about four months of extra income," intel chief operating officer craig barrett told reporters in a conference call.. for an entry level hourly worker earing $, a year, the combined package of added compensation and benefits for last year amounts to roughly $, extra, intel said.. "we think it's also been a phenomenal benefit to our shareholders by motivating our employees to do the best possible job they can for our shareholders and our customers," said barrett, who will become intel's president this spring.. intel said the $ million in cash profit sharing and retirement contributions exceeded the company's total revenues and was roughly equal to its net income.. profits at the santa clara based semiconductor company, which supplies the microprocessors used in four out of every five personal computers shipped, last year soared to $. billion as revenues hit $. billion.. barrett said he did not begrudge employees any of the extra benefits from contributing to record results, and the company now plans to make all its employees eligible for stock options beginning with its next plan, which starts in april.. "this outstanding year would not have been possible without the remarkable efforts of intel employees around the world," said barrett, heir apparent to intel ceo andy grove.. intel ended with a workforce of around ,.. separately, intel chief financial officer andy bryant told an investment conference in new york city that intel remained on track in the first quarter to meet its financial targets, as personal computer unit sales continue to grow.. the stock of intel closed up . cents at $. on the nasdaq market, where it was third most heavily traded.. barrett said the company last year paid out $ million, or the equivalent of . days' salary for each intel employee, under the employee cash bonus programme. all employees receive the cash profit sharing in six month instalments.. in , the company also extended its employee bonus profitability based programme to all employees. the plan, based on growth in intel earnings and achievement of an employee's business group goals, paid out a total of $ million.. a one time bonus marking intel's record breaking year paid $, to each u.s. employee and a locally adjusted figure to each non u.s. employee, or a total of $ million.. intel said that for the ninth consecutive year it contributed the maximum allowed by law to its employee retirement programme, or . percent of employees' pay a figure which totalled about $ million.. intel has sought to build one of the corporate world's most innovative compensation and benefits packages as a way of attracting top employees and to reward them for contributing to the company's long term growth and profitability.. intel, whose shares have vaulted percent in the past year despite moribund results at many rival semiconductor companies, said it was one of only a small number of companies to have instituted an across the board options plan.. even the lowest level hourly workers will receive options to buy a minimum of shares in a five year plan in which the employee gains one fifth of the allotment each year.. barrett said intel also spends roughly percent to percent of its payroll, or around $ million, on employee training each year to help employees advance in their careers.. barrett said intel's generous compensation plan and the hardships at other companies resulted in lower jobs turnover last year. he declined to specify the exact turnover rate, but said "we're in the relatively low single digit range.".