genetic and biochemical studies of a mutant saccharomyces cerevisiae myristoyl coa.protein n myristoyltransferase, nmtpleu &gt;pro, that produces temperature sensitive myristic acid auxotrophy.. . saccharomyces cerevisiae myristoyl coa.protein n myristoyltransferase (nmtp) is an essential enzyme that transfers myristate from coa to the amino terminal glycine residue of at least cellular proteins. its reaction mechanism is ordered bi bi with myristoyl coa binding occurring before binding of nascent polypeptides and release of coa preceding release of the myristoylprotein product. nmt is a temperature sensitive allele, identified by stone et al. (stone, d. e., cole, g. m., lopes, m. b., goebl, m., and reed, s. i. () genes &amp; dev. , ) that causes arrest in the g phase of the cell cycle due to reduced acylation of gpap. we have recovered this mutant allele and determined that it contains a single point mutation resulting in a leu (cta) to pro (cca) substitution. addition of &gt; or = microm myristate but not palmitate to synthetic or rich media rescues the growth arrest caused by nmt at degrees c, consistent with the observation that purified nmtp has reduced affinity for myristoyl coa and that exogenous myristate but not palmitate increases cellular myristoyl coa pools. metabolic labeling studies in s. cerevisiae and co expression of nmtp with several protein substrates of nmtp in escherichia coli indicate that the leu &gt;pro substitution causes a reduction in the acylation of some but not all protein substrates. since formation of a myristoyl coa.nmtp complex appears to be required for synthesis/formation of a peptide binding site, these defects in acylation appear to arise either because leu is a component of the enzyme's functionally distinguishable myristoyl coa and peptide recognition sites or because pro alters the interaction between myristoyl coa and enzyme in a way that precludes formation of a normal peptide binding site. the reduction in affinity for myristoyl coa produced by leu &gt;pro in nmtp is less than that produced by the gly &gt;asp mutation in nmtp, which also produces temperature sensitive myristic acid auxotrophy. isogenic, haploid strains containing nmt, nmt , and nmt do not manifest any obvious differences in steady state levels of the acyltransferases during growth at permissive temperatures or in the biosynthesis of long chain saturated acyl coas. the spectrum of cellular n myristoylproteins whose level of acylation is affected by nmt and nmt is distinct.(abstract truncated at words)