single amino acid substitutions and deletions that alter the g protein coupling properties of the v vasopressin receptor identified in yeast by receptor random mutagenesis.. . to facilitate structure function relationship studies of the v vasopressin receptor, a prototypical g(s) coupled receptor, we generated v receptor expressing yeast strains (saccharomyces cerevisiae) that required arginine vasopressin dependent receptor/g protein coupling for cell growth. v receptors heterologously expressed in yeast were unable to productively interact with the endogenous yeast g protein alpha subunit, gpap, or a mutant gpap subunit containing the c terminal g alpha(q) sequence (gq). in contrast, the v receptor efficiently coupled to a gpap/g alpha(s) hybrid subunit containing the c terminal g alpha(s) sequence (gs), indicating that the v receptor retained proper g protein coupling selectivity in yeast. to gain insight into the molecular basis underlying the selectivity of v receptor/g protein interactions, we used receptor saturation random mutagenesis to generate a yeast library expressing mutant v receptors containing mutations within the second intracellular loop. a subsequent yeast genetic screen of about , mutant receptors yielded four mutant receptors that, in contrast to the wild type receptor, showed substantial coupling to gq. functional analysis of these mutant receptors, followed by more detailed site directed mutagenesis studies, indicated that single amino acid substitutions at position met() in the central portion of the second intracellular loop of the v receptor had pronounced effects on receptor/g protein coupling selectivity. we also observed that deletion of single amino acids n terminal of met() led to misfolded receptor proteins, whereas single amino acid deletions c terminal of met() had no effect on v receptor function. these findings highlight the usefulness of combining receptor random mutagenesis and yeast expression technology to study mechanisms governing receptor/g protein coupling selectivity and receptor folding.