studies of the catalytic activities and substrate specificities of saccharomyces cerevisiae myristoyl coenzyme a. protein n myristoyltransferase deletion mutants and human/yeast nmt chimeras in escherichia coli and s. cerevisiae.. . saccharomyces cerevisiae myristoyl coa.protein n myristoyltransferase (nmtp) is an essential, residue, monomeric enzyme. amino and carboxyl terminal deletion mutants of nmtp were genetically engineered to determine the minimal domain necessary to maintain catalytic activity. enzyme activity was assessed by (i) sequentially inducing nmtp or its mutant derivatives and one of two eukaryotic substrates for the wild type enzyme (s. cerevisiae gpap and rat go alpha) in escherichia coli, a bacterium with no endogenous myristoyltransferase activity, and monitoring nmt dependent incorporation of exogenous [h]myristate into the g protein alpha subunits or (ii) an in vitro enzyme assay using lysates prepared from bacteria producing wild type or mutant nmts. the data indicate that the minimal catalytic domain of nmtp is located between ile &gt;phe and gly &gt;leu. analyses of the ability of mutant nmtps to rescue the lethal phenotype of an nmt null allele in a haploid strain of yeast grown on rich media, with or without blockade of cellular fatty acid synthetase, suggest that the amino terminal residues of nmtp may play an important noncatalytic role, functioning as a targeting signal so this cytosolic enzyme can access cellular myristoyl coa pools generated from activation of exogenous c. by acyl coa synthetase(s). moreover, there appear to be differences in the location or accessibility of myristoyl coa pools derived from fatty acid synthetase and acyl coa synthetases. the e. coli co expression system was used to map structural elements that determine differences in the peptide substrate specificities of nmtp and the orthologous human nmt. rat go alpha is a substrate for both enzymes, whereas human gz alpha is a substrate only for human nmt. studies of a series of chimeric enzymes composed of elements from the amino or carboxyl terminal portions of human and yeast nmts indicate that (i) recognition/utilization of gz alpha involves elements distributed from the amino terminal half through the region defined by leu &gt;lys of the residue human enzyme and (ii) formation of a fully functional peptide binding site and a fully functional myristoyl coa binding site in either of these enzymes requires contributions from both their amino terminal and carboxyl terminal halves.