cell cycle regulation of the yeast cdc protein kinase by association with the dbf protein.. . yeast cdc protein kinase and dbf protein are both required for the initiation of dna replication at the g/s phase boundary of the mitotic cell cycle. cdc kinase function is stage specific in the cell cycle, but total cdc protein levels remained unchanged. therefore, regulation of cdc function appears to be the result of posttranslational modification. in this study, we have attempted to elucidate the mechanism responsible for achieving this specific execution point of cdc. cdc kinase activity was shown to be maximal at the g/s boundary by using either cultures synchronized with alpha factor or cdc mutants or with inhibitors of dna synthesis or mitosis. therefore, cdc kinase is regulated by a posttranslational mechanism that ensures maximal cdc activity at the g/s boundary, which is consistent with cdc function in the cell cycle. this cell cycle dependent regulation could be the result of association with the dbf protein. in this study, the dbf protein was shown to be required for cdc kinase activity in that cdc kinase activity is thermolabile in vitro when extracts prepared from a temperature sensitive dbf mutant grown under permissive conditions are used. in vitro reconstitution assays, in addition to employment of the two hybrid system for protein protein interactions, have demonstrated that the cdc and dbf proteins interact both in vitro and in vivo. a suppressor mutation, bob , which can bypass deletion mutations in both cdc and dbf was isolated. however, the bob mutation cannot bypass all events in g phase because it fails to suppress temperature sensitive cdc or cdc mutations. this indicates that the cdc and dbf proteins act at a common point in the cell cycle. therefore, because of the common point of function for the two proteins and the fact that the dbf protein is essential for cdc function, we propose that dbf may represent a cyclin like molecule specific for the activation of cdc kinase.