fresh from a high court victory, florida's anti tobacco activists are bracing for a legislative assault on the innovative law allowing the state government to sue cigarette makers.. although bloodied by past failures to repeal the law, which undoes many of tobacco industry's best legal defenses, opponents said on tuesday the campaign to repeal florida's third party medical liability act would continue through the current legislative session scheduled to last until may. . "the fight goes on," said jodi chase, general counsel for associated industries of florida inc, an employers trade group prominent in the repeal campaign.. bills to repeal the medical liability law have been introduced in the upper and lower houses of the florida legislature. a repeal bill was vetoed by gov. lawton chiles two years ago and an effort to override his veto failed in .. "the arena now will be the florida legislature," said harold lewis, chief inspector general for chiles. . lewis said the governor and allies inside and outside state government expected tobacco companies and others pushing repeal to launch a full press media and lobbying offensive, even though some top legislators have said a vote on repeal bills was unlikely this year.. on monday, the u.s. supreme court refused to take up a tobacco industry challenge to the constitutionality of the law but did not deal with the principal at issue in the industry's challenge and left open the possibility of considering the matter after a trial. . lawyers for both florida and cigarette makers said the supreme court action makes it even more likely that a trial in the billion dollar lawsuit against the tobacco industry will go forward as scheduled on august in west palm beach, florida.. a spokesman for philip morris, one of the defendants in the west palm beach case, said the company rarely discusses its lobbying efforts but that the company's lawyers were continuing to prepare for trial.. lewis said or more lobbyists were working against the bill and that he expected millions of dollars to be spent by the repeal forces. . a group working with chiles, the coalition to clear the air for florida taxpayers, is preparing a media and organizing campaign to support the law, according to executive director beth labasky.. the group, composed of health organizations and school groups, is calling its campaign, "tobacco. florida's public enemy number one", and expects to spend under $ million on advertising, consultant ron sachs said.. smith barney tobacco industry analyst martin feldman said a constitutional challenge to the florida law was highly likely to be heard by the u.s. supreme court if cigarette makers lose in the west palm beach trial.. "the supreme court has specifically provided the option of considering the industry's claim at a date in the future, and quite possibly as part of an appeal should that prove necessary," feldman said in a written report.. miami newsroom, .