nuclear magnetic resonance studies on the conformations of tridecapeptide alpha mating factor from yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae and analog peptides in aqueous solution. conformation activity relationship.. . the conformation of tridecapeptide alpha mating factor from yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae in aqueous solution was analyzed, in comparison with those of active analog and inactive analog peptides. mhz h nmr spectra of these peptides were observed and the spectral patterns of main chain n h proton resonances were classified into three groups. alpha mating factor and trp bearing active peptides belong to the group a, active des trp peptides belong to the group a while the peptides of group b are inactive. the main chain n h proton resonances of the groups a and a and side chain n h proton resonances were all assigned to individual residues. the c nmr analysis of alpha mating factor indicates that the lys pro and gln pro peptide bonds exclusively take the trans form. from the temperature and ph dependences of chemical shifts and gd(iii) induced relaxation enhancements of amide proton resonances, alpha mating factor is found to take partly a folded conformation in aqueous solution, with an alpha helical form in the n terminal domain and two beta turn forms in the central and c terminal domain. the ph dependence of fluorescence intensity indicates that, in this folded conformation, the c terminal carboxylate group lies close to the n terminal domain. the presence of the folded form in the n terminal domain and the beta turn form in the central domain correlates with the biological activity of alpha mating factor and analog peptides. however, the folded conformation of alpha mating factor is in equilibrium with predominantly unordered form, as found from the circular dichroism and nmr analyses. the n h proton and c alpha proton resonances of free alpha mating factor as assigned in the present study allow the transferred nuclear overhauser enhancement (noe) analysis of the membrane bound conformation that is more directly related with the activity.