candida albicans als. domains related to a saccharomyces cerevisiae sexual agglutinin separated by a repeating motif.. . transfer of budding candida albicans yeast cells from the rich, complex medium yepd to the defined tissue culture medium rpmi (rpmi) at degrees c and % co causes rapid onset of hyphal induction. among the genes induced under these conditions are hyphal specific genes as well as genes expressed in response to changes in temperature, co and specific media components. a cdna library constructed from cells incubated for min in rpmi was differentially screened with yeast (yepd) and hyphal (rpmi) specific probes resulting in identification of a gene expressed in response to culture conditions but not regulated by the yeast hyphal transition. the deduced gene product displays significant identity to saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha agglutinin, encoded by ag alpha , an adhesion glycoprotein that mediates mating of haploid cells. the presence of this gene in c. albicans is curious since the organism has not been observed to undergo meiosis. we designate the c. albicans gene als (for agglutinin like sequence). while the n and c termini of the predicted amino acid als protein resemble those of the amino acid ag alpha , als contains a central domain of tandem repeats consisting of a highly conserved amino acid sequence not present in ag alpha . these repeats are also present on the nucleotide level as a highly conserved bp motif. southern and northern blot analyses indicate a family of c. albicans genes that contain the tandem repeat motif; at least one gene in addition to als is expressed under conditions similar to those for als expression. genomic southern blots from several c. albicans isolates indicate that the number of copies of the tandem repeat element in als differs across strains and, in some cases, between als alleles in the same strain, suggesting a strain dependent variability in als protein size. potential roles for the als protein are discussed.