transcription of alpha specific genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae. dna sequence requirements for activity of the coregulator alpha .. . transcription activation of alpha specific genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae is regulated by two proteins, mcm and alpha , which bind to dna sequences, called p'q elements, found upstream of alpha specific genes. neither mcm nor alpha alone binds efficiently to p'q elements. together, however, they bind cooperatively in a manner that requires both the p' sequence, which is a weak binding site for mcm, and the q sequence, which has been postulated to be the binding site for alpha . we analyzed a collection of point mutations in the p'q element of the ste gene to determine the importance of individual base pairs for alpha specific gene transcription. within the bp conserved q sequence, mutations at only three positions strongly affected transcription activation in vivo. these same mutations did not affect the weak binding to p'q displayed by mcm alone. in vitro dna binding assays showed a direct correlation between the ability of the mutant sequences to form ternary p'q mcm alpha complexes and the degree to which transcription was activated in vivo. thus, the ability of alpha and mcm to bind cooperatively to p'q elements is critical for activation of alpha specific genes. in all natural alpha specific genes the q sequence is adjacent to the degenerate side of p'. to test the significance of this geometry, we created several novel juxtapositions of p, p', and q sequences. when the q sequence was opposite the degenerate side, the composite qp' element was inactive as a promoter element in vivo and unable to form stable ternary qp' mcm alpha complexes in vitro. we also found that addition of a q sequence to a strong mcm binding site allows the addition of alpha to the complex. this finding, together with the observation that q element point mutations affected ternary complex formation but not the weak binding of mcm alone, supports the idea that the q sequence serves as a binding site for alpha .