china's largest zinc producer, liuzhou zinc products co, is tormented by water. there's either too much or too little.. the plant in the southern region of guangxi struggles to stay open against fierce summer floods while low river water levels in winter often rob the factory of the hydropower it needs to keep its production lines running, officials said.. average production at the plant fell to about percent of capacity last year from a previous percent after torrential summer rains flooded some percent of the factory grounds, jiang wenjie, deputy director of the plant, said.. the high waters caused about million yuan ($. million) in damage and forced the closure of a zinc oxide production line for three months, jiang told reuters in an interview.. damage from the floods has since been repaired and output will rise above last year's, he said.. "we see output of all our products hitting percent of capacity this year," he said.. no visible traces remain of last year's floods but a recent tour of the factory grounds revealed workers standing idle because a power outage had shut down all production lines.. "this happens often in winter because water levels are too low to generate power," said one official, who asked not be identified.. the power outages had been worked into production plans, he said.. rising profits, share listing seen in . last year's floods had cut into the company's profits, which fell to an after tax . million yuan last year on sales of million yuan, jiang said.. profits were just half of those in , jiang said, but forecast they would rise to about million yuan this year.. sales were seen at million yuan in , he said.. the company's production of zinc ingots was seen hitting , tonnes in while output of zinc oxide would top , tonnes, he said.. "with the development of china's automobile and construction industries...the market for zinc oxide will increase gradually," he said.. china had some plants turning out , tonnes of zinc oxide annually, he said, adding that domestic demand was about , tonnes a year.. the smelter's output of zinc alloys would hit , tonnes in , output of zinc sulphate , tonnes and that of zinc powder about , tonnes, he said.. production of lithopone, used in low grade paints, would reach , tonnes but domestic demand was expected to slump as rising living standards fuelled the market for higher quality paints, he said.. liuzhou zinc had fixed assets of million yuan, a registered capital of . million yuan and was . percent state owned, jiang said.. the firm had applied to list domestic currency a shares on the stock market in the southern town of shenzhen, he said.. "we expect approval by the end of this year," he said but declined to give further details.. export tariff cut not helpful. jiang gave a lukewarm welcome to a recent central government decision to cut zinc export tariffs in .. beijing's move to lower the temporary export tariff on zinc to zero in from . percent last year would have little effect on the plant's exports due to government quotas on the metal, jiang said.. "our exports won't be more than percent of our output this year," he said.. that compared to exports of percent of production in , he said.. "there are still quotas on zinc exports," he said.. "the central government still has controls over the zinc industry," he said. "they want to ensure domestic demand is met.". exports to grow. the plant would export its products to countries in , he said.. zinc oxide exports would head mainly to the united states, japan, south korea and southeast asia, jiang said but declined to give further details.. china produced about . million tonnes of zinc last year, down . percent from , official figures show. zinc output in december alone was , tonnes.. domestic zinc demand is seen hitting , tonnes in , up . percent from last year, the figures show.. the smelter sourced about percent of its supply of zinc concentrate from mines in guangxi, the southern province of guangdong and yunnan province in the southwest, he said.. the plant would not import zinc concentrate within the next five years, he said.. ($ = . yuan).