general motors corp. said tuesday its fourth quarter earnings fell by more than half as labour strife in the second half of the year cost it $ million in profits.. the world's largest automaker earned $ million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter, down from $. billion, or $. a share, in the fourth quarter. all figures exclude results from electronic data systems corp., which was spun off last june.. revenues fell to $. billion from $. billion.. for all of , gm earned $. billion, or $. a share, down from $. billion, or $. a share. revenues for the year rose to $. billion from $. billion.. workers from the united auto workers union and canadian auto workers union struck gm last fall after talks broke down on a new three year contract. in march , a uaw strike at two dayton, ohio, brake plants crippled gm's north american production for more than two weeks.. all told, gm said work stoppages in the united states and canada reduced its full year earnings by $. billion on an after tax basis.. "clearly our fourth quarter and calendar year results were impacted by the strike related production losses in the united states and canada and are not indicative of gm's potential for continued profit improvement," gm chairman john smith said.. the strikes also took a bite out of the profit sharing checks for gm's union workers. gm said , represented workers in the united states will receive about $ each less than half of the $ each received last year.. gm said , eligible salaried workers will receive incentive payments, with payments rising with the level of pay and responsibility. by comparison, chrysler corp. announced last week its u.s. workers will each receive an average of $, in profit sharing.. gm's fourth quarter results included several one time accounting items, including a $ million loss on the sale of four delphi parts plants to peregrine inc. and a $ million charge for lump sum payments to uaw members as part of its new labour contract.. including the strike related effects, the one time items brought down gm's fourth quarter earnings by $ million, or cents a share. however, the fourth quarter also included a separate, favourable tax gain of $ million.. gm's north american operations, its core automotive group in the united states, had a net loss of $ million vs. a profit of $ million in the year ago quarter. for the year, the north american unit, which includes delphi automotive systems, earned $. billion, down from $. billion.. the automaker's international operations reported net income of $ million for the quarter, down from $ million a year ago. for all of , gm's international profits were $. billion, down from $. billion in .. worldwide car and truck deliveries from gm dealers for the quarter were . million units vs. . million a year earlier. that reduced the automaker's worldwide market share to . percent for the quarter from . percent.. gm's u.s. market share also fell, to . percent in the fourth quarter from . percent a year ago. unit deliveries in the united states were . million down from . million.. in his statement, smith also blamed the lower results on production changeovers, higher advertising and "consumer influence" expenses related to new product launches. the average u.s. retail incentive for the fourth quarter was $ a vehicle, up from $.. "we have more new cars and trucks going into the market now than any time in the last years," he said. "in fact, about percent of the production will be for the new models launched in . those new cars and trucks are key to our plans to aggressively increase market share in the united states this year.". gm stock was down $ at $. in afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange..