ford motor co. said wednesday that its profit jumped percent to $. billion in the fourth quarter as it rebounded from product launches that held profits down a year earlier.. ford, the last of the big three detroit automakers to report fourth quarter results, said it earned $ a share. the results included a $ million charge for one time items.. a year earlier, ford earned $ million, or cents a share. for all of , ford's net income rose percent to $. billion, or $. a share.. fourth quarter revenues were $. billion vs. $. billion. revenues for the year climbed to $. billion from $. billion in .. "we have successfully completed our highest volume launches in north america and europe," ford chairman and chief executive officer alex trotman said in a statement.. "we're starting in a much stronger competitive position," he said. "we expect automotive earnings to improve in .". ford's core u.s. automotive operations, which contribute about percent of total automotive revenues, reported profit of $ million for the fourth quarter, compared with $ million a year ago.. ford continues to benefit from strong sales of f series pickup trucks, explorer sport/utility vehicles, and its new expedition full size sport/utility.. about percent of ford's u.s. automotive sales in were light truck products, the segment that includes pickups, minivans and sport/utilities.. but ford continued to have problems overseas. the company's non u.s. automotive operations lost $ million in the quarter, up from a loss of $ million, due primarily to losses in europe and south america.. ford's european loss for the quarter rose to $ million from $ million a year ago. but it was less than the $ million it lost in the third quarter.. in south america, where ford has struggled in the brazilian market, the fourth quarter loss was $ million, compared with $ million a year ago.. trotman said ford expects better results for all of in europe, where the company has launched several cost cutting moves.. he also predicted improving results for brazil and argentina and said ford is expecting smaller losses in south america for all of , and is targeted to break even in .. "we have the right plans in brazil and argentina to restore our strength and profitabilty, although we know it will take some time as we introduce new products, build a new organization and restore the dealer body," he said. "overall, we are on track.". ford's stock lost cents to $. in early trading on the new york stock exchange..