federal mogul corp hopes to pay off $ million in debt in , bringing its total debt to capital ratio to under percent by the end of the year, chairman and chief executive officer dick snell said thursday.. snell told reuters in an interview other goals for include hitting a return on invested capital of percent, although the year's average will probably be below that.. over the last three years, federal mogul has been earning from . percent to six percent on its capital below its cost of capital of percent. . during , snell would like the company to be earning a percent return on sales. "those are goals," he said. "i think we have a reasonable chance of making it, but i'm not promising.". the southfield, mich. based auto parts supplier announced a broad restructuring thursday that will take it out of the international retail business. the restructuring and other one time items resulted in a $ million pre tax charge.. federal mogul reduced its debt by $ million in . debt to capital is percent, although snell said that will fall as the company sells off its retail operations. . snell said the company has been in contact with possible buyers of the retail operations. a single buyer for the whole package is unlikely, he said, noting the business could be sold in three to different pieces. the firm paid a total of about $ million for the retail operations.. "we're not going to give away the shareholders' assets," he said. "we're going to demand a good value for them.". snell said further consolidations of its north american distribution system and european operations are likely on top of those already announced. those will likely result in more headcount reductions over in the next few years. . federal mogul plans to add a new position of vice president of marketing to improve customer relations, snell said. finalsts have been selected for the job, which will also be responsible for shoring up the firm's after market brands.. "we have some very, very good well known aftermarket brands that haven't had much of any in the way of market support the past several years, which i think is sort of the hidden opportunity this company has," he said.. as it digests the restructuring, federal mogul will also be on the lookout for acquisitions that add to its core manufacturing businesses, said snell. for instance, since the firm makes engine bearings, it makes sense for it to also offer pistons, he said.. snell did not rule out the possibilty of an acquisition worth "several hundred million" in if the right opportunity arises.. salomon brothers analyst darren kimball said snell, who has been on the job days, impressed investors and analysts with the moves announced thursday.. "this is the kind of stock where if the numbers work out, the stock is going to work out because people want to like him," he said..