the world's biggest prescription drugs company, glaxo wellcome plc, announced an percent leap in pre tax profits on thursday, but said life would be tougher after its best selling drug loses its u.s. patent in july.. pre tax profits climbed to . billion pounds ($. billion) from . billion, bang in the middle of analysts' expectations. sales rose percent to . billion pounds, and shareholders were rewarded with a percent rise in the dividend to . pence.. shares in glaxo wellcome, which slipped back to a low of pence at one stage, were down just / pence to . / pounds as analysts responded positively to a meeting with the company. traders said some profit taking had been expected after the stock touched a record . on wednesday.. sales of gastric ulcer treatment zantac fell percent last year, but at . billion pounds it continued to be the world's biggest selling drug, a spot it has held since . zantac has single handedly transformed glaxo, which merged with rival wellcome in , into a huge international player.. sales of its second biggest seller, herpes treatment zovirax which has already lost most of its key patents, were steady at million pounds.. glaxo warned that the best it could hope for over the next two years would be to "at least maintain" its profits at the level.. "the tough period is mid to mid when zantac will come under severe generic pressure in the u.s.," deputy chairman and chief executive sir richard sykes said in a telephone interview with reuters.. but he added. "if you take zantac out we have a . billion pound business growing at percent. that underlying growth is a very clear indication of the strength of the group going forward.". sykes noted that sales of zantac fell by million pounds last year, while a portfolio of newer products launched since saw sales rise by million pounds to . billion pounds.. "our responsibility is to grow those new products to maintain these two (sales) lines in balance as much as possible. it is a balancing act," he said.. the best performers included glaxo wellcome's rejuvenated hiv and aids treatments. retrovir and epivir are at the cornerstone of new cocktails of drugs which have shown startling success in reducing the levels of the virus in the blood to virtually undetectable levels, giving glaxo wellcome the lion's share of a rapidly expanding market.. "today we have percent of the aids market and i don't see why we won't continue to be a very major player," sykes said.. other big sellers included asthma drugs serevent and flixotide and migraine drug imigran, which saw sales in the u.s. alone leap by percent last year.. despite persistent speculation that glaxo wellcome will get onto the acquisition trail again as soon as its debt levels allow, sykes told reuters there had been a clear dissipation of the pressures for mega mergers. he said glaxo wellcome's future expansion was likely to be "incremental.". "the pressures of the early s have changed somewhat in the big markets. the bigger companies get, the more difficult it is to buy them or merge, so the way forward will be much more looking at regional and local opportunities and building these as opportunities come along," he said.. ($ = . british pounds).