british speciality chemicals group laporte plc on monday reported higher than expected annual profits, evidence that its recovery was firmly on track.. laporte, whose value tumbled in november after a shock profits warning, said pretax profit before exceptional items rose percent to . million pounds ($ million) last year, beating analysts' forecasts of between . million and . million.. after exceptional charges, pre tax profits were . million pounds, compared with . million in .. shareholders, who saw the dividend frozen at the half year stage, received a five percent rise in the full year payout to . pence.. the results provided an early boost to laporte's shares, which were up pence at / in mid morning trade after touching a high of pence.. laporte, whose products supply a wide range of customers including the drugs, electronics and food industries, has undergone a major shake up since chief executive jim leng took the helm in october .. leng, forced to issue a profit warning within weeks of taking charge, introduced sweeping management changes and launched a two year restructuring programme which included selling around one fifth of laporte's business.. in december, laporte sold most of its european adhesives business, including evode, to france's elf atochem for million pounds, and leng told reuters that it had received "some initial expressions of interest" for its u.s. and italian adhesives operations.. laporte, which started with debts of million pounds on its books, ended the year with net cash of million pounds, putting it in a strong position to start buying businesses in more proftiable sectors like electronic chemicals and performance materials.. but leng said it did not intend to rush into purchases, commenting. "it is not burning a hole in our pocket. we have got a business which is growing and we will carefully and analytically decide what we are going to do.". leng said laporte intended to take positions in international growth sectors which could not be entered easily by new competitors.. he added that laporte was on target to achieve annual cost savings of million pounds by the end of as a result of the shake up of its operations in which percent of its operating units were sold last year.. "it has been a good all round performance.. every business division made positive cash flow contributions," leng said.. profit margins improved to . percent overall in from . percent in .. "our target is to get closer to percent and we made some good progrss on that," leng said, adding that he wanted to reach a position where "no business has less than percent with the group at an average of percent.". "we won't do that overnight and we won't get there this year," he added.. leng expects raw material prices to be fairly stable this year but said sterling's strength "will dilute our progress".. "if fourth quarter rates applied all year, it would affect profits and sales by million and five million pounds, respectively," he said. "it is a big challenge for uk plc." ($ = . british pounds).