glaxo wellcome plc reported an percent jump in pre tax profit on thursday but said it faced two lean years after its biggest selling drug zantac loses its u.s. patent in july.. pre tax profits at the world's number one prescription drugs company climbed to . billion pounds ($. billion) from . billion, in the middle of analysts' expectations.. sales rose nine percent to . billion pounds and shareholders were rewarded with a percent rise in the dividend to . pence.. despite a forecast of flat profits for and as a result of an anticipated plunge in sales of ulcer treatment zantac, the group's shares ended the day / pence higher at . pounds, recovering from early falls.. analysts said they were encouraged by the performance from the group's management, which is confident it can ride out the collapse of zantac, the best selling drug on which glaxo built its international fortune.. glaxo boldly predicted a return to double digit sales growth in , pinning its hopes on drugs for aids, asthma and migraine and promising new product launches over the next four years.. socgen's director of equity research, paul diggle, said glaxo wellcome had gone a long way to answering the question of whether it was "a becalmed giant that through patent expiries is going to be hard pressed to grow...or a serious growth player which faces a bit of a dip.". bzw analyst steve plag added. "we think that by the end of glaxo wellcome will be one of the strongest drug companies in the industry.". sales of zantac slipped percent last year as competition began to bite around the world but at . billion pounds they continued to make it the world's biggest selling drug, a spot it has held since .. the company said sales of zantac in the u.s. market, which topped one billion pounds last year, could plunge by up to percent in the first year of full competition.. "the tough period is mid to mid , when zantac will come under severe generic pressure in the u.s.," deputy chairman and chief executive sir richard sykes told reuters.. but he added. "if you take zantac out, we have a . billion sterling business growing at percent. that underlying growth is a very clear indication of the strength of the group going forward.". he said sales of zantac fell by million pounds last year, while a portfolio of newer products launched since saw sales rise by million pounds to . billion pounds.. the group's top performers last year included its rejuvenated hiv and aids treatments, whose sales doubled to nearly million pounds.. retrovir and epivir are cornerstones of new cocktails of drugs that have shown startling success in reducing virus levels, giving glaxo a percent share of the fast expanding aids market.. other big sellers included asthma drugs serevent and flixotide, which notched up combined sales of more than million pounds, and migraine drug imigran, which saw sales in the u.s. market alone leap by percent last year.. sales of the group's second biggest product, herpes treatment zovirax, which has already lost most of its key patents, were steady at million pounds.. despite persistent speculation that glaxo wellcome, formed after glaxo's nine billion pound acquisition of wellcome in , would hit the acquisition trail again when debt levels allowed, sykes said the pressure for mega mergers had dissipated.. "the bigger companies get, the more difficult it is to buy them or merge, so the way forward will be much more looking at regional and local opportunities and building these as opportunities come along," he added. ($ = . british pounds).