differential trafficking and timed localization of two chitin synthase proteins, chsp and chsp.. . the deposition of the polysaccharide chitin in the saccharomyces cerevisiae cell wall is temporally and spatially regulated. chitin synthase iii (chsp) synthesizes a ring of chitin at the onset of bud emergence, marking the base of the incipient bud. at the end of mitosis, chitin synthase ii (chsp) deposits a disk of chitin in the mother bud neck, forming the primary division septum. using indirect immunofluorescence microscopy, we have found that these two integral membrane proteins localize to the mother bud neck at distinct times during the cell cycle. chsp is found at the neck at the end of mitosis, whereas chsp localizes to a ring on the surface of cells about to undergo bud emergence and in the mother bud neck of small budded cells. cell synchronization and pulse chase experiments suggest that the timing of chsp localization results from cell cycle specific synthesis coupled to rapid degradation. chsp degradation depends on the vacuolar protease encoded by pep, indicating that chsp is destroyed in the vacuole. temperature sensitive mutations that block either the late secretory pathway (sec ) or the internalization step of endocytosis (end ) also prevent chsp degradation. in contrast, chsp is synthesized constitutively and is metabolically stable, indicating that chsp and chsp are subject to different modes of regulation. differential centrifugation experiments show that a significant proportion of chsp resides in an internal compartment that may correspond to a vesicular species called the chitosome (leal morales, c.a., c.e. bracker, and s. bartnicki garcia. , proc. natl. acad. sci. usa. . ; flores martinez, a., and j. schwencke. . biochim. biophys. acta. . ). fractionation of membranes prepared from mutants defective in internalization (end and end ) indicate that the chsp containing vesicles are endocytically derived. collectively, these data suggest that the trafficking of chsp and chsp diverges after endocytosis; chsp is not delivered to the vacuole, but instead may be recycled.