david wellings, chief executive of confectionery and soft drinks company cadbury schweppes, said the group was trading in line with plans, and still aims to be one of the top three in confectionery by the end of the decade.. "i think the word we used is robust, that means the business is performing to plan. the base business is performing well and our acquisitions are also growing to plan, especially dr pepper," wellings said. . "i think that is the pattern ahead, a base business growing well and a thrust into emerging markets at a pace which management believes is reasonable," he added.. cadbury schweppes posted a three percent increase in trading profit to million stg from its confectionery business in the half year to june . trading profits from its drinks business rose to million from million.. "we have a very clear objective in our confectionery stream and that is to be one of the top three by the year . that means we need to sell one million tonnes of chocolate a year by the year ," wellings said. . the profits increase was driven by the first full six month contribution from dr pepper/up the third largest soft drinks group in the u.s. acquired in january for $. billion.. "the acquisitions we made in are continuing to perform to expectations and that includes our canadian acquisitions as well as dr pepper.. cadbury acquired allan candy for an undisclosed amount and neilson group for million last year, making it the market leader in canadian confectionery. . the company is the third largest soft drinks group in the world but trails in fourth spot behind nestle, mars and suchard in confectionery. "obviously there are areas of the world where we can expand more quickly than others like eastern europe," he said.. cadbury's factories in russia and china came on stream in the first half and poland reached breakeven point in its second year of confectionery production.. in the half year to june cadbury schweppes posted a percent rise in pretax profits to million on sales of . billion up from . billion. . "in north america both confectionery and soft drinks will continue to grow and that is about lifestyle and the breakdown of formal eating occassions and increased opportunities to snack," wellings said.. "so we will continue to see single digit growth even in the mature markets like the u.s. and the uk, but across europe growth is going to be steady. the french for instance still tend to eat two large meals a day and resist the trend towards snacking," wellings said. . up volumes were nearly two percent ahead of last year after a relaunch of its design and advertising but still behind coca cola owned sprite, as competitors stepped up their discounting and promotions.. when it was first acquired up was level pegging with sprite and cadbury is trying hard to turn the brand around. the dr pepper brand, however, is outpacing growth in the u.s. market. the company agreed to sell its percent stake in coca cola &amp; schweppes beverages for . million which will greatly reduce debt and provide more scope for acquisitions, although wellings declined to be drawn on what they might be.. london newsroom + .