scottish based stakis plc on wednesday reported a surge in visitors to its casinos and a sharp rise in its hotel room rates, with chief executive david michel in confident mood about future trends.. "in real terms we are just back to where room rates were in the late s. room rates have just about reached their pre recession levels in the provinces," michels told reuters.. the company's hotels, excluding the metropole in london acquired in november for million stg ($ million) from lonrho, showed an occupancy level of . percent in the first weeks of , a touch down from percent last time.. but its average room rate rose to . stg over the same period, up from . in .. "in the first quarter we did percent, but i still think the average will be . percent or more over the year," said michels. "our forecast is to finish this year at percent occupancy," he added.. although january was a typically dull month for hotel occupancy, future bookings are at similar levels to last year, giving every confidence stakis can achieve its target, he said.. the group's hotel occupancy was also pulled back slightly in the period by the temporary closure of the stakis tyneside where work is underway on a . million stg refurbishment.. during the six weeks metropole traded under the stakis flag, it showed . percent occupancy at an average price per room of . stg for its , rooms.. in a trading statement, stakis said attendance at its casinos rose to , in the quarter up from ,, but the spend per head fell to stg from .. turnover at the casinos rose percent to . million stg driven by the percent increase in attendances.. the fall in spend per head mainly reflected the sale of the barracuda casino in april last year to ladbroke, said michel. the spend per head at the barracuda averaged stg.. but michel was encouraged by the increased casino attendance. "more people realise that they are a reasonable night out, you don't have to spend stg," he said.. "we have spent a year trying to make them do so, we've made a number of conversions, one big new build, and promotions to our base membership of ,, and we have introduced new training tables.". the improvements coincided with an increase in newspaper and television interest in casinos.. stakis shares were up /p at p in early trade. ($=. pound).