food and drink group grand metropolitan plc said on thursday it was hanging a "for sale" sign on its national food businesess in europe in an effort to focus on its major international brands pillsbury, green giant, haagen dazs and old el paso.. "we have people indicating strong interest and indicating prices that are acceptable to us," said paul walsh, chief executive of grandmet's pillsbury company in an interview.. he said he expected the sell off to be complete by january .. in the shop window in britain are shippams, meat pie maker peter's savoury products, memory lane cakes and fleur de lys.. also on the block are germany's hofmann menu and goldstein, cake and pastry maker brossard in france and italy, waffle maker suzy and biscuit firm desobry in belgium and cake maker driehoek in the netherlands.. analysts expect them to fetch about million pounds ($ million).. their combined sales last year were million pounds with operating profit of million and operating capital used of million pounds at september , .. before the announcement, grandmet's european foods business showed sales of $. billion, which are forecast to fall to about $ million once they are sold.. the european foods business posted a trading profit of million pounds in the year to september , up from million in , after a hefty restructuring and plant closure programme undertaken in .. the company does not disclose earnings for each individual subsidiary but brossard in france is easily the largest and similar in sales terms to germany's erasco group, which campbell soup agreed earlier to buy from grandmet for about $ million.. "my plan in foods is to focus on our leading brands," said walsh, adding that the sell off of so called tertiary brands would allow grandmet to concentrate on its main brands.. the businesses were also providing an inadequate return on capital, he said. "you can expect grandmet to be very eager to improve total return to shareholders. several of us have held this view for a long while.. "i think it's compatible with grandmet's mission to improve shareholder returns. we intend to fix that.". grandmet shares were steady at pence.. ($=. pound).