british electricity generator powergen spent million pounds ($ million) on thursday buying back five percent of its own shares at pence each in one of the first such moves since rules were changed in october.. powergen said in november with its half year results that it would buy back up to percent of shares "when appropriate".. powergen's purchase price was the high of the day and shares had eased back to be up . pence at pence by gmt.. the british treasury moved in october to tighten up legislation around some capital restructurings in order to cut back on tax credits.. "the market had expected powergen to flex its muscles and return excess value to shareholders," said analyst nigel hawkins of yamaichi.. earlier this week, water and sewerage company severn trent bought . million of its shares or just under one percent from abn amro hoare govett.. these shares had been sold by the government earlier on the same day as part of a move to sell off its remaining stakes in a slew of utilities.. powergen's decision to go ahead with its buy back spurred shares in other stocks which are seen as likely to be considering similar moves.. banking group barclays plc gained . pence to ,. pence while powergen's fellow generator national power strode . pence higher to pence.. the premium set in powergen's buy back should help to boost the company's share price, analysts said, while at the same time enabling short term investors to move out of the company.. "people left in should be those who see higher value in the company," said one analyst who asked not to be identified.. the move also indicated that powergen was not looking to diversify or prepare for any major acquisitions in the near term, analysts said.. "investors are probably reassured that powergen is giving back value to them instead of diversifying outside their core businesses," the analyst said.. powergen was frustrated in its attempt to buy regional electricity company midlands electricity by the government's decision to block the bid earlier this year.. it bought back percent of its shares in may and june for around million pounds.. the latest buyback should also improve prospects for dividend growth, one analyst said, as it will boost powergen's earnings per share profile.. "reducing the number of shares in relation to earnings should enable powergen to maintain a stronger outlook for its dividend," the analyst said. ($=. pound).