from. stefanh@rahul.net (stefan hartmann). subject. genoa's windowsvga true color board. organization. ai network. lines. . nntp posting host. bolero. . . for immediate release. . editorial contact.. single source marketing. myra manahan () . genoa systems. joseph brunoli () . neil roehm () /technical. . . genoa presents high performance . video graphics accelerator. . san jose, calif usa genoa systems corporation announces . windowsvga , a true color bit graphics accelerator card that . delivers up to . million colors at speeds faster than the . competition. plus it offers a full range of resolutions, high . refresh rates as well as unique proprietary performance features. . the card is available in both bit isa bus and bit vesa local . bus versions (models and vl).. with mb dram on board, the windowsvga card offers . maximum resolution up to , x , and supports a refresh rate . of hz at x and resolution up to , x . non interlaced. both models provide performance many times greater . than standard svga boards, yet conform to all current video . standards.. windowsvga features genoa's flickerfree(tm) technology, . which eliminates screen flash and flicker to make viewing much more . comfortable. the cards also come with safescan(tm), a utility . developed by genoa to eliminate the black border around the screen . and thereby provide percent screen use for overscanning monitors.. windowsvga model vl takes full advantage of the speed . offered by the new vesa local bus technology. most vl bus cards . will only handle data transfers up to mhz, but the vl will . transfer data at the full speed of the cpu, up to mhz. genoa is . also offering this card in the "turbobahn" combination packaged . with their turboexpress vl motherboard.. built around the cirrus logic gd gui accelerator, . windowsvga offers the user an exceptional price/performance . value. genoa's advanced proprietary drivers act to "turbocharge" . the chip, thereby providing an affordable accelerator card with . power and performance that surpass many of the more highly priced . chip cards. the genoa user will enjoy optimal speed and . reliability for such programs as windows, autocad, autoshade, d . studio, os/, orcad and more. driver updates and product bulletins . are available on genoa's bbs at () .. genoa systems manufactures and markets an extensive line of . graphics adapters, motherboards, audio and multimedia cards for . ibm compatible personal computers. all products come with a two . year limited warranty on parts and labor. genoa products are . currently distributed worldwide through authorized distributors, . resellers, vars and systems integrators.. for more information contact joe brunoli, marketing . manager, genoa systems at e. trimble road, san jose, calif. . ; tel. () or () ; fax. () .. . . . stefan hartmann .