molecular analysis of a saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant with improved ability to utilize xylose shows enhanced expression of proteins involved in transport, initial xylose metabolism, and the pentose phosphate pathway.. . differences between the recombinant xylose utilizing saccharomyces cerevisiae strain tmb and the mutant strain tmb , derived from tmb and displaying improved ability to utilize xylose, were investigated by using genome wide expression analysis, physiological characterization, and biochemical assays. samples for analysis were withdrawn from chemostat cultures. the characteristics of s. cerevisiae tmb and tmb grown on glucose and on a mixture of glucose and xylose, as well as of s. cerevisiae tmb grown on only xylose, were investigated. the strains were cultivated under chemostat conditions at a dilution rate of . h( ), with feeds consisting of a defined mineral medium supplemented with g of glucose liter( ), g of glucose plus g of xylose liter( ) or, for s. cerevisiae tmb , g of xylose liter( ). s. cerevisiae tmb consumed % more xylose of a feed containing both glucose and xylose than s. cerevisiae tmb . the biomass yields for s. cerevisiae tmb were . g of biomass g of consumed carbohydrate( ) on glucose and . g of biomass g of consumed carbohydrate( ) on xylose. a k(s) value of mm for xylose was obtained for s. cerevisiae tmb . in general, the percentage error was &lt;% between duplicate microarray experiments originating from independent fermentation experiments. microarray analysis showed higher expression in s. cerevisiae tmb than in s. cerevisiae tmb for (i) hxt, encoding a hexose transporter; (ii) xks, encoding xylulokinase, an enzyme involved in one of the initial steps of xylose utilization; and (iii) sol, gnd, tal, and tkl, encoding enzymes in the pentose phosphate pathway. in addition, the transcriptional regulators encoded by ycrc, ybrw, and yprc were expressed differently in the two strains. xylose utilization was, however, not affected in strains in which ycrc was overexpressed or deleted. the higher expression of xks in s. cerevisiae tmb than in tmb correlated with higher specific xylulokinase activity in the cell extracts. the specific activity of xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase was also higher for s. cerevisiae tmb than for tmb , both on glucose and on the mixture of glucose and xylose.