wdchsp, a class i chitin synthase, together with wdchsp (class iii) contributes to virulence in wangiella (exophiala) dermatitidis.. . the chitin synthase structural gene wdchs was isolated by screening a subgenomic dna library of wangiella dermatitidis by using a . kb pcr product of the gene as a probe. the nucleotide sequence revealed a , bp open reading frame, which encoded amino acids, with a bp intron near its ' end. derived protein sequences showed highest amino acid identities with those derived from the cichs gene of coccidioides immitis and the anchsc gene of aspergillus nidulans. the derived sequence also indicated that wdchsp is an orthologous enzyme of chsp of saccharomyces cerevisiae, which defines the class i chitin synthases. disruptions of wdchs produced strains that showed no obvious morphological defects in yeast vegetative growth or in ability to carry out polymorphic transitions from yeast cells to hyphae or to isotropic forms. however, assays showed that membranes of wdchsdelta mutants were drastically reduced in chitin synthase activity. other assays of membranes from a wdchsdeltawdchsdeltawdchsdelta triple mutant showed that their residual chitin synthase activity was extremely sensitive to trypsin activation and was responsible for the majority of zymogenic activity. although no loss of virulence was detected when wdchsdelta strains were tested in a mouse model of acute infection, wdchsdeltawdchsdelta disruptants were considerably less virulent in the same model, even though wdchsdelta strains also had previously shown no loss of virulence. this virulence attenuation in the wdchsdeltawdchsdelta mutants was similarly documented in a limited fashion in more sensitive cyclophosphamide induced immunocompromised mice. the importance of wdchsp and wdchsp to the virulence of w. dermatitidis was then confirmed by reconstituting virulence in the double mutant by the reintroduction of either wdchs or wdchs into the wdchsdeltawdchsdelta mutant background.