toronto stocks ended mixed in light dealings on monday with weak gold and forestry stocks offsetting strong bank issues and a rally in new york.. the toronto stock exchange's composite index rose . points to close at ., short of its life time high of . reached on february .. declining issues inched ahead of advances to , while stocks were unchanged.. toronto's volume was thin at . million shares worth c$. billion ($. billion).. new york's dow jones industrial average jumped . points to close at ., aided by strength in high technology stocks.. toronto's gaining sectors were led by the financial services which rose points.. "it was a blue chip rally in canada," said calgary based portfolio manager josef schachter.. the nation's five biggest banks are scheduled to begin reporting first quarter earnings this week with bank of nova scotia and bank of montreal on tuesday.. bank of nova scotia rose . to close at ., while bank of montreal gained . to finish at ... other strong sub indices included consumer products, pipelines and conglomerates. the four weak groups were gold and precious metals, forestry products, retail and transportation.. bre x minerals ltd. continued its recent slide, dropping . to close at . on almost . million shares. analysts attributed part of the decline to placer dome inc.'s comment on friday that it was no longer interested in bidding for bre x after its deal with u.s. based freeport mcmoran copper and gold inc. to develop the rich busang gold deposit.. forest products heavyweight macmillan bloedel ltd. topped heavy traders, closing down . at . on . million shares. the stock fell after brokerage gordon capital corp. crossed a seven million share block earlier in the session.. telecommunications firm mitel corp. dropped . to . after announcing that its fourth quarter performance would disappoint analysts.. the company said it expected to take a c$ million ($. million) re tax restructuring charge in the fourth quarter to cut operating expenses at its business communications systems unit..