canada's philip environmental inc. said on thursday it planned to acquire houston based allwaste inc. and serv tech inc. in two deals worth $ million that would create north america's biggest recycling firm.. "we are naturally very, very excited about this opportunity," philip chief executive allen fracassi told a media conference call. "it makes great economic sense and the synergies are just spectacular.". hamilton, ontario based philip said that the deals when completed in june would create north america's largest metals recycling and industrial services company, with annual revenues topping $. billion, , employees and operating locations in north america, europe and south america.. philip, which has recently made a spate of acquisitions to expand beyond the metals recycling business, said it would swap . of a philip share for each allwaste share for total consideration of $ million.. the deal included the assumption of about $ million in debt from allwaste, which provides industrial services.. in a separate transaction, philip agreed to exchange . of a philip share for each serv tech share in a deal valued at $ million, including the assumption of $ million of debt.. industrial and environmental services firm serv tech generated more than $ million in revenues in and philip said that its earnings would be boosted by the serv tech deal.. fracassi told reporters that philip was not done with acquisitions.. "our acquisition program will continue. we are in an very very quickly consolidating, fairly new industrial sector, so we'll continue to seek and react to opportunities," he said.. analyst peter von ond at canadian brokerage midland walwyn called the deals a good fit.. von ond said he revised his earnings estimate for philip to c$. ($.) a share from c$. ($.) after the news.. his forecast was unchanged at c$. ($.) a share since the deals do not close until late june and more philips shares will be issued, offsetting earnings growth.. philip earned c cents ( cents) a share in .. shares of philip were down c cents to c$ on the toronto stock exchange on thursday and by cents to $. in new york.. allwaste rose $. to $. on the new york stock exchange, while serv tech rose . cents to $. on nasdaq..