canada's largest stock market in toronto posted its biggest intra day drop in almost a decade on thursday as shares in former market darling bre x minerals ltd. were hammered by investors.. the toronto stock exchange's key composite index plummeted . points to ., the biggest loss since october , , the day after so called black monday when it lost . points.. gold prospector bre x resumed trading late on thursday, plunging c$ to c$. on eight million shares after the company said on wednesday's its busang gold find, once touted as the world's largest, may not be as rich as projected.. "it's pretty obvious that bre x blew a hole in the market," said john ing president of maison placements canada of toronto. "it's...the shock and the ripple effect of the bre x disaster.". investors unloaded their bre x shares after trading resumed thursday afternoon, wiping c$. billion ($. million) from the company's market value. the stock was halted on wednesday.. on nasdaq, bre x shares plummeted $ / to $ / on trading of nearly . million shares.. investors seemed unconvinced after bre x chief executive david walsh declared he was confident of the company's reserve estimates for its discovery deep in indonesia's jungle.. bre x's partner freeport mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. said on wednesday its preliminary studies showed the site turned up "insignificant amounts of gold." bre x has estimated the busang deposit contains million ounces of gold.. during the selloff, the toronto stock exchange's computer systems were halted twice, forcing the market to close half an hour early due to "technical difficulties," an official said.. worries about other junior mining firms swept the market, sparking a massive retreat in the heavyweight gold sector.. the gold group sank . points, or . percent, to close at . its biggest one day drop since september , when the sector lost nearly percent of its value.. the carnage also extended to new york's stock market, which lost . points on the dow jones industrial average to close two percent lower at ... wall street, already unsettled by fears that rising interest rates would end its bull run, was further hurt by news that toronto was suffering its own difficulties with bre x, analysts said.. all of toronto's sub indexes finished lower, led by golds, banks and base metals.. trading was heavy with . million shares changing hands worth c$. billion ($. billion). declining issues outnumbered advances to with stocks were unchanged..