canadian grocery chain loblaw cos ltd is set to see earnings per share soar by percent by as sales grow, president richard currie said on friday.. "earnings per share will jump about percent over the next three years," currie told the annual meeting. first quarter profit rose to c$. a share for the period ended march from year earlier c$... currie also told shareholders that earnings per share would rise to c$. to c$., the range of predictions by analysts. "my expectations are (that) the analysts are about correct," he said.. last year, loblaw, which is percent owned by bakery group george weston ltd, earned c$. a share or c$. million on sales of c$. billion.. currie forecast sales would expand by percent. "sales have been very solid, up seven percent last year, and with this year being a week year, it might hit to percent," currie added. "that would represent a stellar year.". loblaw ended its previous fiscal year in december but because it reports in week increments, it must add a few days this year.. "the earnings have a potential to increase more if we can get our costs down to where they could be," currie said. in , loblaw streamlined warehousing and distribution systems.. loblaw, which owns retail and wholesale stores including loblaws, valu mart, extra foods and lucky dollar foods, has seen sales grow steadily over the past few years as it expanded in atlantic canada and other regions.. the grocer plans to unveil its first quebec stores, outside of its outlets in the ottawa/hull region, in late or early .. loblaw has also benefited from the strike of unionized workers at safeway inc stores in alberta, which began on march , currie added. loblaw sales have jumped percent in the province.. safeway is based in pleasanton, california.. currie said loblaw would have c$ million in capital expenditures in , up from about c$ million in . he said loblaw planned to open or renovate outlets.. loblaw shares edged up . to . on the toronto stock exchange today, below its week high of . and well above its year low of ... george weston shares rose . to in toronto.. ((lydia.zajc@reuters.com, reuters toronto bureau () )).