a long awaited early measure of czech m money supply showed no signs of surfacing on monday, causing traders and analysts who use the numbers for investment strategy to vent their frustrations.. "it's incredibly frustrating, because the czech national bank keeps referring to m as one of its most important statistics and it's consistently released very late," said matt starr, a fixed income analyst at creditanstalt in prague.. while central banks of most major economies and many post communist neighbours have already released key money supply figures for well into , the czech national bank (cnb) has yet to publish any for the year.. the cnb said on monday it still had no definite release date for january's m data, although the figures may come soon.. "definitely not today. maybe tomorrow or after tomorrow," pavel palivec, a cnb spokesman, told reuters.. "no legal norms" require a release of m data, he said, adding that slow reporting of commercial banks was partly to blame for the tardier than usual release.. tension has grown ahead of the government's economic stimulus package on wednesday, where some analysts believe that a rapid decline in m may enable the cabinet to succeed in pushing the central bank into lowering key interest rates.. "they (the cnb) may be waiting for political reasons, but it's putting a lot of people off," said one trader at the prague office of a foreign bank.. analysts are hoping to see end february figures, although january data is more likely.. they say it is difficult to forecast privately and that much of the data included in the m calculation has long been at the central bank's disposal.. the cnb has never had a set release date for its key m figure, but in the lag time was usually around one and a half to two and a half months after the period being measured.. the last m release was on march , when the cnb said m at end december was . percent higher than the same month. that was a slowing from november which showed a rise of . percent year on year.. november's results were released on january .. analysts are watching m closely since growth in the money supply slowed from a double digit rate last year ahead of central bank tightening measures in june.. the government has said a drop in march's month inflation rate to . percent from nine percent for much of came at the cost of a slowdown in economic growth.. the criticism has kept many watching for a possible lowering of interest rates, monetary conditions permitting.. creditanstalt's starr said he expects the figures after an inflow of more than billion crowns in crown eurobonds in january might give the central bank less room to manoeuvre, helping its argument to keep rates higher.. "i actually think the m figure for january is going to be bad with all those eurobonds they haven't been able to sterilise (pull out of circulation)," starr said.. compared with other central banks, the cnb published figures lag well behind.. * germany's bundesbank has a roughly three day window around the th of each month to release its key m data for the preceding month.. * the u.s. federal reserve measures m weekly and releases the results within three to five days, adding up roughly $ trillion circulating and saved in the u.s. economy.. * the neighbouring polish central bank releases its broad money data for each month within days after the end of the period measured. end march data was released on april .. prague newsroom, .