the merger of bankers trust new york corp. and alex. brown inc. sends a clear signal to congress that the nation's banking laws enacted during the depression have fallen hopelessly behind market trends.. "it's another example of the kind of progress that is being made in the market," said karen shaw petrou, president of the consulting firm isd/shaw. "the industry is modernizing even if congress is lagging on modernization legislation.". legislators have argued for more than a decade about repealing the glass steagall act of enacted in the wake of the stock market crash of which prohibits banks from offering other financial services like securities or insurance.. the debate is still raging in congress, but this time around the market may exert more influence. in the last year, federal courts and bank regulators have substantially diminished glass steagall's reach.. "this is the most profound example that glass steagall is no longer on life support systems; it's dead," said larry larocco, a bank industry lobbyist and former congressman. "now we need to move on and deal with the other issues.". in congress, lawmakers involved in drafting bank reform legislation said they had received the market's message.. "this proposed merger simply underscores the need for timely congressional action," house banking committee chairman jim leach, r. iowa, said.. the ranking democrat on the banking committee, texas rep. henry gonzalez, said the safety and soundness of the banking system could be jeopardized by ad hoc mergers.. "as it is today, it is only a matter of luck that restructuring deals like this will truly serve the best interests of the market and the people who depend on it," gonzalez said. "congress can't afford to do nothing and hope that everything will be all right.". one of the biggest controversies to be addressed is whether banks should be allowed to combine with non financial commercial firms, said larocco, who is managing director at the american bankers association's securities association.. bankers trust said sunday it would acquire baltimore based alex. brown in a stock deal valued at $. billion.. in acquiring alex. brown, bankers trust was taking advantage of a move by the federal reserve last december to more than double the amount of revenue a bank securities subsidiary could earn without running afoul of glass steagall act.. bankers trust chief executive officer frank newman told reporters monday that after the acquisition securities activity would constitute about percent of revenues on a pro forma, or estimated, basis. that would have exceeded the previous cap of percent but is permissable under the revised percent cap.. fed officials declined to comment on the merger.. the merger also benefited from fed actions to eliminate previously required barriers, known as firewalls, separating a bank from its securities subsidiary.. removing the firewalls allowed banks to cut costs by eliminating duplication between the two activities while allowing additional benefits from the combination.. the relaxation of firewalls has drawn some criticism from congress, where sen. lauch faircloth, chairman of the senate banking committee's financial institutions subcommittee, held a hearing questioning the move.. but the north carolina republican now seems satisfied with most of what the fed has done or proposed. "we're going to entrust to the fed that they'll continue to do the prudent thing," faircloth's legislative director james hyland said.. faircloth's remaining concerns center on two of the firewall reforms proposed by the fed in january, allowing a bank to buy investments underwritten by its securities firm for its own trust accounts and lending money to an investor to purchase underwritten securities, hyland said..