the u.s. government is scrambling to update thousands of computer systems and software programmes that might otherwise see jan. , , as "" and think they are operating in .. "we are confident that all of the major systems will be fixed," said sally katzen, who is coordinating much of the repair effort from her post as administrator of the office of information and regulatory affairs in the office of management and budget.. "that is what we are setting out to do and that is what we will do," she pledged in an interview.. legislators in congress have also taken an interest in the subject and prodded agencies into action. most are well aware of the problem, congressional staff say, although a few slackers, including the air traffic control system, are raising concerns.. "congress is sounding the alarm and will keep sounding it until this problem is solved," representative steve horn said in an interview.. horn, chairman of the government reform committee's management, information and technology subcommittee, has taken testimony from a variety of government and private sector experts on the year problem.. "i have learned that the real challenge it poses is to management," horn said. "software experts are capable of fixing the problem, but can management understand what is at stake, make it a priority, organise a plan and allocate resources so the technical experts can do their job?". the subcommittee surveyed government agencies about year awareness last year and responses to an updated survey have just come in. the latest survey found that all agencies are aware of the problem and most are ready to put the needed fixes in place, a congressional staffer said.. some of the agencies that people are most concerned about, the defence department and the social security administration, appear to be in good shape and have extensive plans to fix the problem well before dec. , .. at the defence department, "we are treating it much as we would a computer virus," assistant secretary of defence emmett paige told horn's subcommittee.. although weapons systems are not set to launch automatically by computers, problems could crop up when the weapons interact with command and control systems that are operated by computers, congressional staffers explained.. during the gulf war, a command and control system that was scheduled to run for hours began shutting down weapon systems it was in contact with after running a few hours past its deadline.. "that would obviously be a disaster, but they're working on it," said one staff member.. social security is also a primary focus of concern, but for more political reasons. millions of voters depend on their social security checks for meeting basic living expenses. if the checks were delayed or cancelled, congress would probably be inundated with thousands of complaints.. "they started the earliest but they have a lot to do and still aren't finished," a staff member said. "my sense is that they will be fine.". one agency of concern, according to congressional staffers, is the federal aviation administration, which operates the country's air traffic control system and inspects commercial airplanes.. "the department of transportation is very worrisome," one staffer said. "the faa is still in the assessment phase. that's the one that's a real concern.". the agency cannot give an estimate of how many lines of code it has that must be changed or how much that might cost until it completes an assessment expected by the end of may, according to mary powers king, who heads the faa's information technology effort.. "it's somewhat painful because no new funding has been appropriated and we're having to reprogram to absorb the activity," powers king said. "that is a big part of the reason why we started late. we've got that figured out now and we've got to just bite the bullet.". overall, recent estimates indicate the federal government will need to spend $. to $. billion to identify and correct year computer problems, katzen said. the estimate has risen slightly from about $. billion a few months ago.. "i wouldn't be surprised to see them come another ($ to $ million) as we continue through the process of assessment," katzen said. "but i think that we've got it in just about the right ballpark.". in a feb. , , report to congress, the budget office projected that the military needed the largest portion of the money for updates. the air force would require $ million, the army $ million, the navy $ million and other defence related areas $ million.. other big spenders in the report were the treasury department, needing $ million, and the veterans administration, needing $ million..