french pharmaceuticals and beauty products firm sanofi on tuesday posted a net profit rise of percent, helped by a return to profit in the beauty sector in the second half of the year.. the company announced net earnings for the full year of . billion francs ($ million), compared to . billion a year ago, on sales of . billion, which were up three percent.. earnings per share rose eight percent to .. analysts had been expecting an average earnings per share figure of . francs, according to edinburg financial publishing, and . francs according to jacques chahine finance in paris.. the year was "satisfactory", finance director jean claude leroy told a news conference.. it was marked by the continued high level of research efforts. that is right in line with our policy for the short term which is progressing nicely and preparation for the long term through research," he added.. healthcare sales rose five percent but turnover in the beauty segment fell by the same percentage, he said.. the overall profit rise was helped by "major success in the clinical development of new products in the healthcare sector," the group said.. there had been very weak economic growth in europe, with the exception of britain, and that had resulted in increased competition, sanofi said in a statement with its results.. in the beauty segment, selective distribution of luxury goods was hit by that sluggish consumption and sales for the sector fell five percent to . billion francs on a like for like basis from . there were no new beauty product launches last year.. but the sector, after a million loss in the first half, posted operating profit for the second half close to that of the year ago period. in the full year operating profit was million francs, against million in .. yves rocher posted growth in both sales and net earnings while nina ricci reported declines in sales and earnings due to difficulties in the industry, sanofi said.. leroy said sales of yves saint laurent fell two percent to . billion francs, while roger &amp; gallet's turnover was under million francs. sales from oscar de la renta were above the million level while van cleef &amp; arpels was close to that.. in healthcare, pharmaceutical sales continued to grow in all geographic areas, except in the united states where there was competition from generic products. diagnostics saw sales up four percent, hindered by difficult market conditions.. healthcare operating profit rose . percent to . billion francs after taking in account higher research and development spending. research accounted for percent of group turnover.. the year was marked by relative stability of the french franc in comparison with other major world currencies, with the exception of the japanese yen.. net debt to equity ratio at the end of was percent versus percent a year ago. cashflow rose percent to . billion francs.. the group, percent held by oil major elf aquitaine, had previously forecast a percent rise in net profit. it gave no forecast for profit and the dividend would be set at the board meeting due on march .. ($ = . french francs).