french defence electronics firm thomson csf, soon to be sold by the state, posted results on wednesday showing a return to profit after three years of heavy losses.. thomson csf reported net attributable profit of million francs ($ million) compared with a net loss of million for . sales were up . percent at . billion.. the government, after a bungled first attempt, is trying to privatise thomson csf as part of a defence industry restructuring which could have an impact on the entire european sector.. french engineering and telecommunications giant alcatel alsthom has teamed up with fighter aircraft maker dassault aviation and state owned aerospatiale to bid for thomson csf.. missiles to publishing group lagardere is also bidding, supported by british aerospace plc (bae).. thomson csf said in a statement that operating profit rose . percent to . billion francs despite a reduction in military budgets and tougher markets. the improvement was due to better competitiveness following restructuring efforts pursued over a number of years.. the net result was dented by an exceptional charge of million francs, compared with million in the prior year, to cover restructuring costs tied to the shrinking of markets and cost cutting measures, it said.. pre tax pre exceptional profit rose percent to . billion francs, reflecting the productivity gains and lower financial charges. financial costs fell to million francs from million, due to lower interest rates and favourable currency movements.. consolidated pretax profit was . billion francs, versus a loss of million, which included a million franc hit from its the sale of its holding in the troubled state owned bank credit lyonnais.. thomson csf's previous three years' losses were essentially due to falls in the value of credit lyonnais' shares, which were taken on thomson csf's accounts to reflect its equity stake.. europe, excluding france, contributed more than billion francs in sales for the first time, compared with less than four billion in .. "the european market accounts for percent of the consolidated turnover, against only percent at the end of the s," it said, adding this was due to its policy of external growth through acquisitions.. its holding in profitable semiconductor maker sgs thomson contributed million francs, up from million in .. net debt fell to million from . billion.. with an order book worth more than billion francs at the end of , the firm should see an increase in turnover over last year on a like for like basis, it said.. the stock market responded to the figures by marking the shares higher, welcoming the operating profit which was in line with forecasts even though the net result was below the one billion franc or so some expected.. as the lower than expected net attributable profit included restructuring charges, the market viewed this positively, one broker said.. thomson csf stock was up . percent at . francs at gmt, while the market was down . percent.. ($ = . french francs).