function of hybrid human yeast cyclin dependent kinases in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . it is now well established that progression through the eukaryotic cell cycle is controlled by oscillations in the activity of cyclin dependent kinases (cdks). in many cases, however, the physiological substrate(s) of cdks are unknown. the saccharomyces cerevisiae pho gene encodes a secreted acid phosphatase which is induced in response to phosphate starvation. the pho gene is activated by the phop transcription factor, which itself is negatively regulated through phosphorylation by the products of pho and pho. phop and phop are homologous to cyclins and cdks, respectively, and the phop/phop heterodimer satisfies the biochemical definition of a cyclin/cdk. in the present study, several reporter genes were expressed in s. cerevisiae from promoters which are activated by the transcription factor phop, thereby generating yeast strains which exhibit quantifiable phenotypes that reflect the activity of a specific cyclin/cdk. positive genetic selections for inhibition of cyclin/cdk function were characterized using the e. coli neo and yeast leu genes. chromosomal disruptions of the yeast pho and pho genes were constructed and conditions for complementation by plasmid borne genes were defined. complementation is achieved at very low levels of expression of both phop and phop. high level expression of phop results in aberrant pho promoter regulation, characterized by failure to derepress in low phosphate medium. genes encoding hybrid cdks in which regions of phop were replaced with the homologous region of human cdk were constructed, and tested for function in s. cerevisiae by complementation of the pho chromosomal gene disruption. hybrid proteins in which more than two thirds of the molecule were derived from human cdk retained phop function with respect to high phosphate repression of the pho promoter. the hybrid proteins require the pho gene product for this function. a hybrid human yeast cdk in which a single amino acid is deleted, within a nonapeptide sequence which is perfectly conserved in phop and human cdk, retains full function. these results demonstrate that, within the context of the conserved structure of cdks, considerable primary sequence variability can be introduced without loss of the cyclin dependent function of the cdk.