the prague stock exchange continued its strong performance in , rising for the sixth consecutive session as investors turn their attention to shares of blue chip utility cez.. cez, which fell out of investor favour over the past few months, is finding fresh legs as investors, especially from abroad, consider cez significantly undervalued compared with other blue chip issues.. the prague based utility closed up crowns at ,, to help boost the px index . points, or . percent, to ... "cez has been very much lagging behind other blue chips...during the last three months but it's very liquid and it has a positive profit outlook for the next few years," said radim bajgar of ing barings.. "for me at the moment, cez seems to be one of the stocks that has good potential...i think that cez might definitley go to ,...by the end of the week or maybe even today," he added.. engineering concern skoda also performed well, rising crowns to ,, following comments by director lubomir soudek that skoda's gross profit should rise in to about one billion crowns after a million gross loss the previous year.. he said the heavy machinery group, based in the western city of plzen, which makes everything from trucks to tin cans and nuclear components, recorded a billion crown turnover last year after billion in .. skoda's core companies, which exclude joint ventures of the group, reached turnover of billion crowns and exports worth billion crowns.. blue chips komercni banka and spt telecom did not fare as well, however, easing slightly on modest volumes.. in broader issues, brewer pivovar radegast continued to surge ahead following an announcement by britain's bass plc last week that it had increased its stake in the firm to percent, and was mulling the possibility of eventually merging it with prazske pivovary (pp).. bass holds a majority stake in the prague based pp.. overall, issues gained ground on the day, while fell and held steady. total volume was average at , shares on turnover of . billion crowns..