the czech republic recorded its first budget deficit, despite last ditch efforts by its fiscally hawkish government to achieve its fourth consecutive surplus.. the government a final effort in december when the budget looked headed for a more than five billion crown deficit, by freezing some outlays until , and requiring early repayment on credit granted to a deposit insurance fund.. but the measures were not enough and the finance ministry announced on friday that definitive results show the budget ending with a deficit of . billion crowns.. ministry spokeswoman ludmila nutilova said revenues for the year totalled . billion crowns, while expenditures were . billion.. the czechs have had three year end budget surpluses since czechoslovakia split in .. fiannce ministry officials have said that the deficit may edge up even further since more bills may be delivered after the deadline.. the budget has been hampered continually by lower than expected tax revenue and delayed repayment on credits to russia.. the budget was originally approved as a balanced budget totalling . billion crowns, but an autumn round of spending cuts knocked the forecast expenditure down to billion crowns.. parliamentary budget committee chairman jozef wagner, a member of the largest opposition party, the social democrats, said the deficit was not troublesome, but he was concerned with the effects government payment adjustments may have on the budget.. part of the december stop gap measures included postponing payment of million crowns in state subsidies for housing loans which was due to the partially privatised banks ceska sporitelna a.s. and ipb a.s.. prime minister vaclav klaus, who calls balanced budgets the "alpha and omega" of his government, hailed initial reports of a budget surplus, made by the finance ministry soon after the new year, as a sign of the country's continued fiscal responsibility.. parliament approved a fifth straight balanced budget plan in december, with both expenditures and revenues forecast at . billion crowns in .. but the budget was based on economic growth of . percent, and many independent analysts have forecast growth for this year at under five percent, after growth between . and . percent for the whole of .. many have voiced concern that slower than expected economic growth might force the government to consider major changes in the budget to keep a much larger deficit at bay.. prague newsroom, .