the czech republic has recorded its first budget deficit despite last ditch efforts by the government, which has staked its reputation on fiscal responsibility, to achieve a fourth consecutive surplus.. the finance ministry said on friday that definitive data showed the budget ending with a deficit of . billion czech crowns ($. million).. modest though the budget may be by western standards, it was the first shortfall since the czech republic became a sovereign nation in following the demise of czechoslovakia.. the centre right government made a final effort to balance the books in december when the budget seemed to be heading for a deficit of more than five billion crowns.. it postponed some spending until , and required early repayment of credit granted to a deposit insurance fund.. finance ministry spokeswoman ludmila nutilova said revenues for totalled . billion crowns, while expenditures were . billion.. ministry officials have said the deficit might edge up even further since more bills might be delivered after the deadline.. the budget has been hampered continually by lower than expected tax revenue and delayed repayment of credits to russia.. the original budget was balanced with spending and revenue at . billion crowns, but an autumn round of cuts knocked the forecast expenditure down to billion crowns.. parliamentary budget committee chairman jozef wagner, a member of the opposition social democrats, said the deficit was not troublesome. but he was concerned about the effects that government payment adjustments might have on the budget.. part of the december stop gap measures included postponing payment of million crowns in state subsidies for housing loans which had been due to the partially privatised banks ceska sporitelna a.s. and ipb a.s.. prime minister vaclav klaus, who calls balanced budgets the "alpha and omega" of his government, hailed initial reports of a budget surplus made by the finance ministry soon after the new year, as a sign of continued fiscal responsibility.. parliament approved a fifth straight balanced budget plan in december, with both expenditures and revenues forecast at . billion crowns in .. but the budget was based on economic growth of . percent, and many independent analysts have forecast growth for this year at under five percent, after growth between . and . percent for the whole of .. many have voiced concern that slower than expected economic growth might force the government to consider major changes in the budget to keep a much larger deficit at bay.. prague newsroom, ($=. czech crown).