the budapest stock exchange hit a record high on friday, leading a foreign buying induced bull run through eastern europe this week.. markets across the region rose, led by budapest and warsaw, which recorded a year high. romania and slovenia also moved strongly higher, while bratislava and prague edged up with little upward momentum.. warsaw. the warsaw stock exchange set four consecutive month highs in heavy turnover this week and post fixing buying on friday was seen pushing them to another highs next week. analysts said a profit taking correction was likely later.. the bourse has risen percent since december .. "...i think next week investors will start taking profits after such a surge," said maciej matusiak, an analyst at pko bp brokerage. analysts expected , points to provide strong support for the wig index next week.. some analysts said the profit taking correction was likely to be brief and the market could return to its uptrend later on, possibly on growing foreign interest in polish stocks, which were luring new investors.. budapest. the budapest bourse continued its bull run this week, setting record highs in the four of the week's five sessions.. propelled primarily by oil and gas company mol shares, the bux index wiped out thursday's half percent fall, finishing the week at a record high of ,. points, up . points or . percent.. traders said they still believe the market must endure a correction after gains of around percent so far this year, but they are convinced any new downturn will be limited.. "after substantial rises, a natural correction could come but no major fall should be expected," laszlo baranyai of gog securities said. "we might move a little lower next week.". with little fresh news on the macroeconomic side, preliminary annual corporate results, to be published by february could give clues to the future direction, traders said.. prague. the prague stock exchange edged up this week in moderate trading. analysts said investors have been heartened by recent talk of strengthening market oversight but it may take several months before strong flows of money return.. the px index closed on friday at ., up . points, on the week. "we're still seeing a lot of interest in funds, but some of the other major shares are flat," said alex angell of wood and company.. several funds have attracted heavy investor interest after declaring they would transform their closed ended unit trusts into open ended funds, making it possible that the shares would rise much closer to their net asset value.. the finance ministry is still creating guidelines for the funds, but at least one fund manager, harvard, has said it plans to begin buying units from current holders in anticipation that it would receive approval to transform.. bratislava. the bratislava stock exchange (bse) edged higher in a quiet week, and brokers said the market was stabilising after a slow start to the year.. but they said the growth was still fragile due to generally weak investor interest. "there is constant demand for only a few issues, which could stop virtually any time," said peter lachkovic of slovenska sporitelna.. the share sax index rose mainly on gains to oil refiner slovnaft, closing at . points on friday, up . from monday's open at ... zagreb. croatian stocks were firmer with blue chips posting new records on friday, and seen as extending their strong gains next week.. traders said drug firm pliva and zagrebacka banka closing at and , kuna respectively would continue to pull the market up. but investor interest was expected to turn increasingly to hotel issues and food stocks such as podravka, which topped its issued kuna price to end at kuna.. bucharest. the bulk of bucharest prices jogged higher this week as bullish sentiment which has gripped the market since the start of the year pushed stocks higher for the sixth consecutive session, sending the two indices to year highs.. analysts said the bull run has been fuelled by higher inflation and a depreciating leu.. ljubljana. slovenian shares jumped . percent this week, pushed up by foreign buying. the share sbi index soared . points to ,... close week's change / high / low. jan net pct. cesi ,. +. +. ,. .. warsaw ,. +. +. ,. ,.. budapest ,. +. +. ,. ,.. prague . +. +. . .. bratislava . +. +. . .. bucharest. vab index . +. +. . .. big index . +. +. . .. ljubljana ,. +. +. ,. .. all time high. cesi ,. (jan /); bux ,. (jan /); wig ,. (march /); px ,. (april /); sbi ,. (june /); sax . (february/)..