the czech trade deficit for december widened beyond forecasts, but analysts said the crown should hold steady on monday despite some nervous moments immediately after the figures were released.. the czech statistical bureau (csu) said the trade deficit for december hit . billion crowns ($ million), putting the full year shortfall at a record . billion crowns.. a reuters survey of economists had forecast a december deficit of about billion crowns, following a . billion crown trade gap for the same month in the previous year. the overall deficit was . billion crowns.. the csu said in a statement that imports for , spurred by constant growth of machinery imports, totalled . billion crowns, a year on year rise of . percent.. meanwhile, the csu said exports faltered, hampered in part by a downturn in western european economies and a strengthening crown, rising only . percent year on year to total . billion crowns in .. the csu added that machinery imports alone for the year hit . billion crowns, an increase of . percent over .. raw materials, unprocessed goods and chemical products imports also showed strong growth, totalling . billion crowns, a . percent year on year increase.. the same sector also dominated exports, reaching . billion crowns. but the csu said exports in this area contracted by some . percent year on year.. despite the poorer than expected result for december, analysts said the overall figure should have little impact on the crown after some nervous moments in early monday trading.. "it's quite nervous, spreads are wide...(but) bad figures were expected and the figures are not seasonally adjusted," said petr tomek of zivnostenska banka.. the crown dipped to around . against the dollar and . against the mark implying +. percent against its mark/dollar basket mid point immediately after the figures were released, but it subsequently recovered to around +. percent.. the crown was fixed on friday by the central bank at . percent above the basket mid point. ($=. czech crown).