the czech statistical bureau (csu) issued forecasts for on monday predicting a slight economic upturn, but analysts issued warnings about the rapidly growing trade and current account deficits.. after a sluggish , the csu said it expected real gross domestic product (gdp) growth for of . . percent following an estimated . percent in . average annual inflation should ease to . . percent from . percent, it forecast.. the csu added in its wide range of forecasts that the current account deficit, spurred by a spiralling trade gap, should grow to billion crowns from an estimated . billion crown ($ billion) shortfall in .. analysts said the figures were more or less in line with expectations, but said that the widening current account and trade deficits both seen growing to record levels in could undermine the economy.. "i think they are credible forecasts, but not very encouraging," said david lubin, an economist at hsbc midland.. "it's okay for a country to run a current account deficit of nine percent of gdp but only if you believe in the future the economy will generate trade surpluses big enough to repay the debt that's being accumulated to finance the deficits," he told reuters.. according to the csu estimates, the current account shortfall should be . . percent of gdp in . it forecast the trade deficit would widen to billion crowns from a deficit of . billion last year.. at the heart of the trade gap was a . percent rise in imports in , due largely to firms investing in new machinery and materials which are badly needed for post communist economic restructuring.. exports stagnated, rising only . percent for the year. but the csu said it expected them to grow . . percent in , while import growth should ease slightly to percent.. "some improvement (in imports) can be expected only in the second half of due to the influence of investment in new technologies and some pro export measures," the csu said.. but analysts say it is still too soon to know if the vast imports of machinery and materials in will be properly put to use, and whether managers can make their new capital goods translate into a more competitive industrial sector and cover the deficit currently being run up.. "i'm not sure that the czech economy is making sufficient progress at the corporate level, the micro economic level, to generate those trade surpluses," said one local economist.. "it seems to me that the czech economy still has a sort of fundamental competitiveness problem," he added.. after fighting through a recent downturn, the czech republic's largest trading partner, germany, appears poised to make a recovery in . government officials have often said that this should help sagging czech exports.. but if the german economy does warm up, the bundesbank may raise interest rates to keep it from overheating, attracting back funds which have flooded into the czech republic and bolstered its capital account.. "what they gain on the current account on the balance of payments from the german upturn, they might lose somewhat on the capital account," lubins said.. the csu said growth in average nominal wages a factor the central bank has said must be brought under control if inflation targets are to be met is expected to be . . percent, down from the forecast increase of . percent.. some analysts, however, said the drop might not be enough to stem inflationary pressures.. "this (wage growth) is much more than this economy can afford maybe around percent is acceptable," said vladimir kriedl, an economist at patria finance.. prague newsroom, ($ = . czech crowns).