natwest markets is expected to deal firmly with anyone found to have been responsible for its million pound ($. million) loss on interest rate options.. sackings, demotions and bonus cuts are among the penalties banking sources have suggested natwest could hand down when it releases a preliminary report into the affair on thursday.. natwest markets, the investment banking arm of britain's national westminster bank plc, revealed the embarrassing hole in its interest rate options book nearly two weeks ago.. a natwest markets spokeswoman declined to comment on the precise timing of the early findings of its internal probe, which have been widely expected to emerge this week.. she said she could not comment on a newspaper report suggesting bonuses could be cut but confirmed the results of the inquiry "may have a financial impact on certain individuals".. natwest has hired accountants coopers &amp; lybrand and law firm linklaters &amp; paines to assist it in finding out how the options "mispricing errors" went unnoticed for so long.. options are contracts which give buyers the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying security at a set price on a set date in the future.. a former natwest trader, widely believed to be kyriacos papouis, has been reported by natwest to british financial markets regulator the securities and futures authority (sfa).. and a senior natwest trader, neil dodgson, has been suspended for allegedly "failing to supervise", pending the outcome of the probe.. dodgson, who has not spoken about the case, was not immediately available for comment.. papouis left natwest in december last year for u.s. investment bank bear stearns. he resigned from bear stearns last week and has not commented on his role in the natwest affair. there has been no suggestion there was any personal gain involved, but the affair has raised deep concerns about natwest's internal risk management.. bear stearns last week declined to give any details of the papouis resignation, except to say it had conducted a thorough review of his open trading positions and was satisfied they were all booked and managed properly.. britain's sfa has been notified of the natwest internal inquiry and has opened a file, while the bank of england has said it is co operating with sfa.. on tuesday the bank of england, which supervises the natwest group, said it was being kept informed of developments by natwest.. natwest markets said it was undertaking a thorough review of its control systems, both internal and external.. banking sources and british newspaper reports said this has involved examining the workings of both its interest rate derivatives department and its compliance division.. jean francois nguyen is head of interest rate derivatives at natwest markets. at the time of the mispricing errors, he reported to the then head of debt capital markets phil wise.. the times on thursday reported that natwest's computer based risk models had not been fed with accurate information which would have enabled any excessively risky positions to be identified.. a key question likely to be asked of senior natwest officials is why the firm did not reveal the loss when it announced its results only days before it made the surprise announcement.. natwest said it had brought the loss to the market's attention as soon as it came to light, but some banking sources questioned why the loss had not been picked up when the firm prepared its accounts.. ($ = . british pounds).