natwest markets detailed on friday a shake up of its global debt markets wing, shifting power to managers from greenwich capital, the u.s. bond house it bought last year.. the changes, which are not linked to revelations of million pound ($ million) losses by the investment banking arm of britain's national westminster bank plc in its options business, have established greenwich managers in key positions.. "the co chief executives of the new global debt markets division are gary holloway and chip kruger," a natwest spokeswoman told reuters, adding that two senior natwest managers, johan hattingh and alby cator, had left as part of the changes.. holloway and kruger are from greenwich capital. holloway will be based in greenwich in the united states and will be responsible for the u.s. and asian operations. kruger will be london based and responsible for european debt market operations.. greg bowes, who built up greenwich's london business before the natwest takeover, becomes head of government bonds, repos and futures and options.. other key appointments are frank canelas, who will head corporate bonds origination, sales, trading and research, bruce snider who becomes head of asset backed origination, structuring and trading and phil lotz, chief administrative officer for operations, it and finance.. the natwest spokeswoman said the shake up played to both natwest's and greenwich's strengths. the changes, which were announced internally on thursday, have created main areas of responsibility within the debt markets division.. a number of natwest managers kept key roles within the new framework. these included graham rendell in acquisition finance, housing finance and syndicated loans, and simon collins, who continues as head of debt structuring and structured finance.. gary mulgrew and gordon mckechnie jointly head project finance, structured trade finance, and leasing and asset finance. george trott and martin jaskel head debt origination for corporates and all financial institutions. neil coulbeck remains responsible for business management and portfolio administration.. natwest said hattingh, who was european fixed income head, and cator, who was managing director of european primary markets, had left as part of the reshuffle.. "their departures are as a result of the restructuring of the debt markets division," the spokeswoman said when asked if the two had been made redundant by natwest.. hattingh had been at natwest markets since when he joined from japan's ibj. with the integration of greenwich, hattingh was joined in european fixed income by greg bowes.. natwest's embarrassing losses in its global debt derivatives division have led to the suspension of five senior employees and bonus cuts totalling eight million pounds for a handful of staff.. chief executive martin owen cutting his own bonus and the securities and futures authority (sfa) and bank of england are looking into what went wrong at the firm.. one banking source described the effect of the $ million greenwich purchase as being "effectively a reverse takeover" for debt markets aimed at imposing greenwich's bond expertise and experience over parts of natwest's existing team, which had been struggling to build up its business in some areas.. the source also said the discovery of the options losses, which were first announced two weeks ago, had been a direct result of auditing changes implemented by greenwich managers.. on thursday natwest's owen told reuters that the interest rate options losses, which began in late , had surfaced as a result of "certain procedural changes".. at the time of the greenwich buy, natwest's owen said it plugged a major gap in the group's investment banking strategy and would meet demand from clients for firms able to offer the broadest possible range of global fixed income products.. owen said greenwich would give natwest access to the world's biggest market u.s. treasuries and the growing asset backed area. natwest already had u.s. mergers and acquisitions advisory capacity in the form of gleacher natwest..