minnesota mining &amp; manufacturing co chairman and chief executive l.d. desimone said the company is comfortable with earnings estimates ranging from $. to $. per share for .. in an interview with reuters tuesday, desimone said, "within that range, at this point in time, we feel that there's nothing different we should say.". profits in were $. per share.. desimone said the company is maintaining its target of earnings gains exceeding percent annually. . "things can happen. the currency has gotten a lot worse," he said. "but we think that up to this point, we've had some mitigation of that with all sorts of programs. but there's a limit there, too. we feel pretty good about fulfilling those kinds of numbers.". in remarks to industry analysts also made tuesday, m chief financial officer giulio agostini said about , employees in the united states and europe late in the fourth quarter of left m through voluntary separation. "about an additional people in europe will depart m under similar programs in the first half of this year," he said. . agostini said st. paul, minn. based m expects raw materials prices to be slightly lower in than in , "producing a small benefit to cost of good sold.". he said capital spending for is expected to be about $. billion, compared to $. billion in .. the total shares outstanding of m is expected to be reduced by about four million in from its level at the end of of . million, agostini said.. desimone said percent of m's sales came from products introduced within the past four years, maintaining a traditional benchmark of the technology based company. . m said percent of sales came from products introduced within the past months.. a more than percent jump in fourth quarter selling, general and administrative expense, compared to a jump for the entire year of only about half that, came on accounting adjustments and higher advertising costs, desimone said.. "we don't think that's continuing. what we see for sg&amp;a is a gradual decline to something a little under percent of sales. we might get to that level over the next year, year and a half," desimone said.. the company's effective tax rate was . percent for the fourth quarter and . percent for , "slightly better than last year," agostini said. "we don't anticipate a significant change in our tax rate in ," he said.. shares in m were up / to / in late trading after the company reported fourth quarter operating earnings of $. per share, beating the first call consensus estimate by $.. earnings in the year ago quarter were $. per share on an operating basis.. "volumes were encouragingly good. margins were modestly weaker than i'd anticipated they might be relative to the revenue growth projection," said schroder wertheim analyst michael ellman. overall, however, he said, "aggregate volume growth was percent. that's smoking. that's darn good.". (( chicago newsdesk )).