baxter international inc is comfortable with the first call consensus earnings forecast of $. per share, compared to $. per share for , said baxter chief financial officer harry kraemer.. in an interview thursday with reuters, kraemer said, "we're very comfortable with that. i would say that's a very reasonable number.". he said the deerfield, ill. based healthcare products giant expects revenues to be in the $. billion range, up from $. billion reported for . . "if you start off with the $. billion that we have today, you add immuno for another almost $ million and you put in a little growth ... it would be fair to say we'd be somewhere in the $. billion range for ," he said.. he said baxter continues to anticipate closing its $ million acquisition of switzerland's immuno international ag by mid year.. the company expects to post charges on acquired in process research and development related to buying immuno and research medical inc, kraemer reiterated. but he said the size of those charges still has not been determined. . he said closing of the $ million acquisition of research medical is expected by the end of the first quarter.. research medical's results will not likely have an impact on baxter's until the second quarter, he added.. "immuno will be non dilutive in ' and will be accretive beginning in . for rmi, which obviously is a much smaller transaction, it will be slightly dilutive in and will be accretive in and beyond," he said.. baxter expects gross profit margin to rise this year over last. "i would expect to see our gross margin increase during ... as much as a half a point is realistic," he said. . gross profit margin was . percent for the quarter just ended, down from . percent a year earlier. "the fourth quarter of last year was much higher than our trends.... we just had a blip in the fourth quarter last year," he said.. gross margin for was . percent, down from . percent in . baxter offset the decline by cutting selling, general and administrative costs as a percentage of sales to . percent in from . percent in , kraemer said.. sales in baxter's renal business grew faster than in the past, in "low double digits" on the quarter, and hit $. billion for the year, kraemer said. . the renal business consists primarily of clinics that sell dialysis services to patients with kidney disease. baxter's chief competitor in the u.s. market is fresenius ag.. in the united states, fourth quarter renal sales were down "in low single digits, virtually almost flat" compared to year ago results, kraemer said. the decline was less steep than in the third quarter, however, he said, adding there has been an easing in the price war with fresenius.. "there was a significant price competition the first couple of quarters, which has now levelled out," he said.. for , baxter's cardiovascular group had sales of $ million, the biotechnology group had sales of $. billion, and the intravenous systems group had sales of $ billion.. looking ahead, kraemer said baxter expects sales to grow more than percent in . "we think we're going to generate at least an incremental $ $ million in cash flow. we will grow our net earnings after tax in the low double digits. we do believe, beyond , that we'll grow our earnings in and in the mid teens," he said.. (( chicago newsdesk )).