under pressure from angry stockholders to restructure, wmx technologies inc. said wednesday it agreed to sell for $ million the percent stake it holds in servicemaster l.p., a provider of services ranging from lawn chemicals to household maids.. however, critics of the nation's largest garbage hauler stepped up their attacks, demanding more top level resignations a day after phillip rooney quit as chief executive.. nell minow, a principal at lens inc., said wmx chairman and acting chief executive dean buntrock, , should stay on the job long enough to find a new ceo, and then step down.. moreover, minow said lens would like to see wmx chief financial officer john stanford appointed only two weeks ago reassigned or otherwise removed from his post.. washington, d.c. based lens owns a small stake in wmx and is working closely with another investment group headed by financier george soros. the soros group owns . percent of the company.. oak brook, ill. based wmx is in the midst of a broad restructuring intended to appease dissatisfied stockholders and refocus its business. on feb. , it unveiled plans to divest $. billion in assets, cut , jobs and buy back million shares of stock.. wmx owns or has rights to acquire . million restricted shares of servicemaster, including an option to purchase . million shares that would be cancelled as part of the transaction announced wednesday, the companies said.. "although our investment in servicemaster has provided exceptional returns to our shareholders, wmx is returning to a highly focused waste management services company and we believe our investments should be limited to core business activities," buntrock said.. "with this transaction, we are well along the way toward achieving our goal announced two weeks ago of monetizing an additional $. billion of non core assets," he said.. the stock sale is expected to be completed on or before april , the companies said.. wmx's stock fell . cents to $. while servicemaster rose cents to $., both on the new york stock exchange.. "the transaction is expected to be immediately additive to servicemaster earnings per share and will provide significant, incremental tax benefits to servicemaster," said servicemaster chief executive carlos cantu.. "it also eliminates market uncertainties regarding the status of the wmx shares," he said.. cantu said servicemaster intends initially to finance the stock repurchase with bank borrowings. duff &amp; phelps credit rating co. said wednesday it may downgrade servicemaster's debt, pending further details of the transaction's financing.. buntrock, , founded wmx and was chief executive from until june . at that time, he was replaced as chief executive by rooney, who resigned tuesday, just a week after his ouster was demanded by the soros group.. earlier this month wmx named john sanford as its new chief financial officer. formerly wmx treasurer, he replaced james koenig, who became executive vice president.. minow said lens is dissatisfied with sanford. "the new one i would like to see reassigned, as well, or gone," minow said. "they need to bring in an outsider.". wmx spokesman william plunkett, responding to minow's comments on the cfo, said, "john sanford has been in this job very briefly and he is an experienced financial executive. he is well regarded among our investors and is actively engaged in the process of enhancing shareholder value.". he declined further comment.. downers grove, ill. based servicemaster's network of service companies includes servicemaster consumer services and servicemaster management services, and servicemaster diversified health services and international. its consumer services unit owns and franchises trugreen chemlawn, terminix, servicemaster residential and commercial services, merry maids, american home shield, amerispec and furniture medic..