under pressure from angry stockholders to restructure, wmx technologies inc. said wednesday it agreed to sell for $ million the percent stake it holds in servicemaster l.p., a provider of services ranging from lawn chemicals to household maids.. oak brook, ill. based wmx, the nation's largest garbage hauler, is in the midst of a broad restructuring intended to appease dissatisfied stockholders and refocus its business.. on feb. , it unveiled plans to divest $. billion in assets, cut , jobs and buy back million shares of stock.. wmx chief executive officer phillip rooney resigned tuesday, just a week after his ouster was demanded by an investment group controlled by financier george soros.. wmx owns or has rights to acquire . million restricted shares of servicemaster, including an option to purchase . million shares that would be cancelled as part of the transaction, the companies said.. "although our investment in servicemaster has provided exceptional returns to our shareholders, wmx is returning to a highly focused waste management services company and we believe our investments should be limited to core business activities," said wmx chairman and acting chief executive dean buntrock. "with this transaction, we are well along the way toward achieving our goal announced two weeks ago of monetizing an additional $. billion of non core assets.". the stock sale is expected to be completed on or before april , the companies said.. following the news, wmx's stock was off . cents at $., while servicemaster rose . cents at $. on the new york stock exchange.. "the transaction is expected to be immediately additive to servicemaster earnings per share and will provide significant, incremental tax benefits to servicemaster," said servicemaster chief executive carlos cantu.. "it also eliminates market uncertainties regarding the status of the wmx shares," he said.. cantu said servicemaster intends initially to finance the stock repurchase with bank financing.. servicemaster's network of service companies includes servicemaster consumer services and servicemaster management services, and servicemaster diversified health services and international. its consumer services unit owns and franchises trugreen chemlawn, terminix, servicemaster residential and commercial services, merry maids, american home shield, amerispec and furniture medic.. analysts said the sale of the servicemaster stake and rooney's resignation may signal that wmx intends to speed up its restructuring and meet its critics head on at the upcoming may annual shareholders meeting, where some expect a heated battle for control of the company..