mgi pharma inc is reorienting its marketing efforts for salagen, a drug for dry mouth in head and neck cancer patients, but it's still unable to predict when the company will turn a profit.. in an interview with reuters, chief executive charles blitzer said salagen is growing slowly. "there's a lot we're learning about salagen that we didn't understand back when it was being touted as a $ million product," he said.. on the job since april, blitzer said he is revamping the sales effort for the drug, which stimulates salivation. . the minnetonka, minn. based company has yet to post a sustainable profit. it lost $. per share in and $. per share in . dain bosworth projects a loss of $. per share this year and $. per share in .. "there's a question about whether we can be profitable in a sustained way in ," said chief financial officer james adam.. the new strategy, bolstered by research data, encourages use of the drug during radiation treatments for head and neck cancer, rather than after treatment to relieve dry mouth, or xerostomia. a new sales force has been trained and fielded. . "we're going to continue to make a steady and slow, but sure, impact in the head and neck cancer arena," blitzer said.. dain bosworth last week lowered its estimate of the annual market for salagen to $ $ million from $ million. the firm cut its consolidated revenue estimate for mgi to $. million for from $. million, and to $. million for from $. million. revenues were $. million in .. the company still expects to file a supplemental new drug application in the fourth quarter with the u.s. food and drug administration seeking clearance to sell salagen as a treatment for sjogren's syndrome, blitzer said. . sjogren's is an autoimmune disease that damages the salivary glands and most commonly affects post menopausal women. the target population for the disorder numbers about , patients, compared to about , for xerostomia.. data from completed clinical trials for sjogren's may also indicate salagen can relieve dry eye, or kerato conjunctivitis seca, with a target population of million, blitzer said. salagen sales in the second quarter were $. million, up percent over the year ago level.. aside from salagen, mgi continues to develop some anti cancer compounds. renewed attention was drawn to one, mgi , in july when the national cancer institute voted to fund a series of trials with it, he said.. mgi on monday completed a secondary, . million share stock offering that yielded proceeds of $. million to be devoted to "late stage in licensing opportunities" of promising anti cancer compounds, blitzer said.. mgi shares were up / at / tuesday. in mid , they traded as high as .. chicago newsdesk .