hewlett packard co., seeking to forge rapidly into the fast growing area of electronic commerce, said wednesday it agreed to acquire verifone inc. in a stock swap worth $. billion.. hewlett packard said verifone, a leader in electronic payment hardware and software, will be operated as an independent unit of hp. verifone stockholders will receive one hp share for each verifone share, the company said.. forrester research estimates the market for business to business electronic commerce will jump from $ million last year to $ billion in the year , with consumer retail business rising to $ billion from $ million in .. "when you talk about online commerce today, invariably you're talking about online payment. verifone is going to be the diamond in the crown in this area for some time to come," said forrester research analyst karen epper.. hp said the proposed acquisition would combine its strength as the second largest u.s. based computer equipment company with verifone's leadership in electronic commerce. verifone had net revenue of $ million in its fiscal year.. the acquisition price of about $. billion was based on hp's closing stock price of $. a share tuesday. hp's stock slipped by $ to $. in midday trading on the new york stock exchange, where it was one of the most heavily traded issues.. verifone jumped $., or percent, to $., also in heavy trading on the nyse.. jp morgan analyst daniel kunstler said the deal provides hp with some "lynchpin technologies" for electronic commerce, and although it will be slightly dilutive to hp's current fiscal year earnings, the impact should be less than one percent.. redwood city, calif. based verifone, which was founded in and pioneered automated credit card transaction systems, has recently expanded to include conducting business over the internet and using "smart card" products for the home.. smart cards have imbedded computer chips that can store so called electronic cash and other information.. just last week, citicorp's citibank said it will launch a pilot programme with verifone to test smart card use that will allow selected customers to download funds onto smart cards using its devices in their home or office.. verifone estimates that its systems handled more than $ billion of the $ billion in electronic transactions conducted in the united states last year.. the acquisition is a further step in hp's drive to develop products for what it calls the "on ramps" and "off ramps" of the information superhighway, a business that includes computer printers and scanners, where hp is a dominant player already.. hp said the two companies' technologies complement each other, with hp's focus on internet security technologies and major corporate markets, including its broad distribution channels, melding with verifone's expertise in moving money.. "central to hp's strategy to achieve this vision is the ability to move money securely from end to end over the internet, an area verifone has pioneered through products and strategic relationships," hp executive vice president rick belluzzo said.. the companies' relationship includes providing products for the visa/mastercard secure electronic transaction protocol, which is being rolled out this year, for secure credit card payments over the internet.. analysts noted that other firms, many of them fledgeling startups like cybercash, in which verifone holds a percent stake, are also competing in what they expect will be an explosive market for electronic commerce systems and services..