electricity generator scottish hydro electric plc turned in lower than expected half year profits on thursday but hiked its dividend by percent.. "we aim to keep on delivering dividend improvement...doing it by expanding the business," chief executive roger young told reuters in an interview.. pretax profits edged down to . million pounds ($. million) from . million previously, below expectations of to . million. the dividend was . pence per share.. the shares were down / pence at .p at gmt.. scottish hydro said low rainfall had hit profits, as hydro electric generation had been replaced in part by coal at a cost of . million pounds.. but chairman lord wilson said in a statement that the second half had started well and he was confident of "an encouraging result for the full month period.". scottish hydro said it was preferred bidder for the percent stake in keadby power station, northeast england, owned by united utilities, its joint venture partner there, and aimed to complete the deal by the end of the current financial year.. young said the plan would "increase costs but also increase profits", adding an extra megawatt of generation capacity to the company's existing portfolio.. scottish hydro said the deal should increase gearing to around percent if it went ahead and added that together with existing expenditure commitments, gearing should peak at percent in .. "we are confident of the prospects for keadby and look forward to the opportunity to exploit its capabilities in the market place," the company said in a statement.. young said the company aimed to boost market share to seven percent from a current four percent by with a total investment in combined heat and power (chp) plant for commercial customers of over million pounds.. the company said that action taken to raise output and cut costs would improve performance over the next two to three years and added that raising standards was a key aim.. scottish hydro said that changes proposed to capital allowances in the british budget in november were expected to reverse a trend of falling tax rates but added it would not be possible to predict the impact accurately until full details were known.. the company will be looking to expand its domestic business, young said, but a resumption of talks with british gas on the sale of the latter's supply interests was unlikely, he added.. "i would not be optimistic of a resumption," he said.. british gas announced in september that talks on the sale of its domestic gas supply business in england and scotland to scottish hydro had been called off, scotching newspaper reports that the sale would bring in around million pounds.. young said the breakdown was for administrative rather than commerical reasons.. "there was no serious commercial difficulty that caused the project to be dropped...british gas had a lot of competition for its (administrative) resources," he said.. but he said the moment for the deal might now have passed. "deals tend to have their day," he said, adding that there . were other discussions around, "but nothing that we can talk about." ($=. pound).