british supermarket group j. sainsbury stunned markets on friday and sent its shares reeling as it admitted the cost of improving sales will hit profits, wiping some million pounds ($ million) off forecasts.. sainsbury said in a statement that pretax profits for the year were expected to be million pounds excluding a million pound provision on its texas do it yourself business, compared with analysts' forecasts of over million.. shares tumbled as analysts raced to downgrade forecasts, losing pence, or almost percent, to pence.. "i had no idea (sales growth) would have cost them so much...the cost benefit of the sales improvement is way out of line," said nick bubb, analyst at mees pierson.. sainsbury said sales from existing supermarkets rose . percent in the eight weeks ending january and that trend has continued, compared with a three percent rise in october .. arch rival tesco, which pushed sainsbury off the market leader slot over a year ago, earlier this week reported sales growth of . percent over the key christmas period.. "we are disappointed that the costs of building sales across the businesses have impacted group profit," chairman david sainsbury said in a statement.. bubb said he was "amazed that the share price has not fallen further," adding that sainsbury still looked overpriced compared to the rest of the supermarket sector.. before profit downgrades, sainsbury was on a forecast price to earnings ratio of , according to reuters data from edinburgh financial, towards the top end of the food retailing sector, ahead of safeway and asda.. "the shares have quite rightly been marked down to a market rating but a discount rating would be more appropriate," said one sector analyst who asked not to be identified.. sainsbury's chief executive of homebase do it yourself and u.s. businesses david bremner said the company's reward loyalty card accounted for "probably the majority of the impact" on sales growth but admitted there was a short term cost.. he told reuters the task facing management next year was "to improve profits," adding that "obviously, we would always like to improve sales.". sainsbury was forced to launch reward after the success of clubcard helped tesco to boost sales and leap ahead of sainsbury as market leader at the end of .. reward's costs have edged up to around . percent of sales compared with . percent in the first half, the analyst said, which could imply a need for sales growth nearer five percent.. "the costs of loyalty are clearly greater than they thought," he said.. analysts were concerned that sainsbury might have to sink more investment to improve sales and profits and forecasts for / were also cut, with bubb slashing estimates to million pounds from million previously.. sainsbury said that management was now focused "on turning increased sales into profit growth," but analysts questioned how this could be achieved.. "what do they have to do next, what more costs need to go in?" asked one sector analyst.. bubb added that despite homebase's strong sales, which bounced . percent from existing stores in the weeks to january , the million pound provision was a concern.. sainsbury said it aimed to convert an extra texas stores, which it bought from ladbroke in , to its homebase format, which has given an uplift of percent in sales at stores already given the new format.. "the full store conversion process remains the key to unlocking the potential of the texas acquisition," sainsbury said. ($=. pound).