the czech republic appeared headed for its first budget deficit despite earlier reports by the fiscally hawkish government that it had achieved a surplus for the fourth successive year.. "(we expect) the definitive results for will range around a deficit of . billion crowns," deputy finance minister miroslav havel said on wednesday in testimony to parliament's budget committtee.. the czechs have had three surplus budgets since czechoslovakia split in .. final data were due in the ministry on wednesday but as local media paid close attention to whether monetarist prime minister vaclav klaus would maintain his fiscal winning streak, havel said the trend was not positive.. he said that by wednesday revenues totalled . billion crowns, while expenditures were . billion.. more bills may be delivered after the deadline, inflating expenditures further, havel said.. the government made last ditch efforts in december when the budget looked headed for a more than five billion crown deficit, by freezing some outlays until , and requiring early repayment on credit granted to a deposit insurance fund.. the budget has been hampered by lower than expected tax revenue and delayed repayment on credits to russia.. the budget was originally approved as a balanced budget totalling . billion crowns, but an autumn round of spending cuts knocked the forecast expenditure down to billion crowns.. parliamentary budget committee chairman jozef wagner, a member of the largest opposition party, the social democrats, said the deficit was not troublesome, but he was concerned with the effects government payment adjustments may have on the budget.. part of the december stop gap measures included postponing payment of million crowns in state subsidies for housing loans which was due to the partially privatised banks ceska sporitelna a.s. and ipb a.s.. klaus, who calls balanced budgets the "alpha and omega" of his government, hailed initial reports of a budget surplus, made by the finance ministry soon after the new year, as a sign of the country's continued fiscal responsibility.. parliament approved a fifth straight balanced budget plan in december, with both expenditures and revenues forecast at . billion crowns in .. but the budget was based on economic growth of . percent, and many independent analysts have forecast growth for this year at under five percent, after growth between . and . percent for the whole of .. many have voiced concern that slower than expected economic growth might force the government to consider major changes in the budget to keep a much larger deficit at bay.. prague newsroom, .