engineering group skoda a.s. said on tuesday it had won an order to supply trolleybuses worth more than $ million to the city of san francisco, the largest order of czech goods ever to the united states.. skoda spokesman jaroslav hudec said the electrically powered buses would be produced in the czech republic and assembled at skoda's subsidiary, electric transit international (eti) in baltimore.. "we consider victory in this tender to be an extraordinary success not only in view of the expected volumes of supplies...but also because the u.s. market is among the most prestigious and demanding in the world," hudec said.. plzen based skoda, no longer affiliated with the czech car maker skoda automobilova a.s., has made an aggressive push into new markets, aiming to offer western quality units with the comparative cost advantage of eastern european production.. the san francisco contract would open the way for skoda, an engineering conglomerate which makes goods ranging from nuclear power components to drink cans, to win more business in the united states, hudec said.. "considering the ecologisation of public transport in the u.s., skoda plzen has real chances to win further orders... and also bring the brand skoda to the u.s. market in relation to other production of our factories," he said.. eti's president, ladislav tetal, told reuters the order would virtually replace san francisco's entire fleet of buses, as the city retains only a few dozen younger units.. he said the deal had no connection with san francisco's landmark cablecar lines which will continue to be a symbol of the "city by the bay".. the total for the order with details of the financial and technical conditions would be finalised by mid year, hudec said, but declined to give further details.. the deal must still be approved by the san francisco board of supervisors in a vote scheduled for april , eti said.. skoda has made over , trolleybuses since many of which can be seen running in cities throughout the former communist bloc.. earlier this decade skoda won a contract to supply trolley buses to the city of dayton, ohio, and founded a u.s. joint venture with private partners in baltimore, eti, to assemble the buses. skoda holds a majority stake in eti.. the dayton supply is scheduled to be completed in . skoda said it is also pursuing joint ventures to build trolley buses in russia and iran.. guy creasy, equities analyst at ib austria securities in prague, said that while the san francisco order was indeed a positive signal for skoda shares, lingering questions over the cost of recent acquisitions remained.. "i don't think (the order) is a drop in the bucket, but i don't think it will make the difference between profit and loss," he said. "i don't think it will make us change (skoda's share recommendation) to a 'buy'.". creasy said that it was not yet clear how earnings from the order would be divided with skoda's u.s. partners.. analysts have been wary about skoda shares, awaiting results which should show the impact of buying two ailing czech truck makers, liaz a.s. and tatra a.s... skoda shares gained crowns in tuesday's fixing on the prague stock exchange to crowns, reversing a downtrend in the stock which ended crowns lower on monday. the shares showed thin activity after the tuesday fixing.. skoda said in a statement on monday that it planned to raise its basic equity by . billion crowns through an unspecified share issue still to be decided by shareholders.. the czech state national property fund (npf) in march said it would sell its remaining . percent stake in skoda soon through the prague share markets.. news of the san francisco order comes as the czech republic has posted record trade deficits. the country's current account deficit topped eight percent of gross domestic product last year, up from four percent in ..