china bank deposits grew last year, albeit more slowly than in due to two interest rate cuts, and would remain the top choice for private investors due to a lack of other opportunities, state media said on sunday.. however, investment funds, which have so far failed to attract investors and exist on only a tiny scale, could become a target for private funds in , the china daily business weekly said on sunday.. investment in housing and insurance could become alternatives this year after small investors burnt their fingers in the stock markets and in corporate bonds and failed to buy state debt due to enormous competition, it said.. stamps, coins, antiques and art targets of the destructive fervour of red guards in the radical cultural revolution would continue to play an important role in the portfolios of families with money to save, it said.. new bank deposits in china in january to november totalled . billion yuan ($. billion), up percent year on year, but with growth sharply down from the skyrocketing . percent increase for all of , the newspaper said.. total private savings in china's banks amounted to ,. billion yuan at the end of november, it said.. a sharp cut in retail inflation, to about . percent from . percent in , persuaded many individuals to put their money in the banks, it quoted central bank economist zhao haikuan as saying. china uses retail inflation as its benchmark, mainly because consumer inflation remains higher at about . percent showing little incentive to save in banks.. the interest rate on one year deposits stood at . percent, lower than the . percent offered in but well above inflation, zhao said.. although china's two stock markets in shanghai and southern shenzhen had now attracted million investors and drew more than , new punters a day between october to early december the limited size of the exchanges and their volatility were deterrents, the business weekly quoted analysts as saying.. in addition, a state debt issue of . billion yuan last year fell far short of absorbing the more than billion yuan in new deposits, zhao said. china is expected to float up to billion state debt in , nearly one third more than in .. he ruled out a substantial drop in personal bank deposits as a result of the lower interest rates and saw little likelihood of a flood of consumer spending.. bank savings would remain the first choice for individuals in , ahead of stocks and bonds, zhao said.. officials were eager to lure deposits into china's state owned banks, saddled with huge bad debts from state owned enterprises and still required to help out state firms identified as strategic by the central government.. investment funds were seen absorbing surplus cash this year as more stocks and corporate bonds are floated in , the business weekly said, quoting a report by leading brokerage china securities co ltd.. by , china had set up funds and of these were listed in shanghai or shenzhen. the listed funds accounted for just . percent of all equities, with their market value estimated at about million yuan, or . percent of total trading volume, the business weekly said.. only three funds have capital of more than million yuan, while percent are smaller than million yuan. few have invested in equities, preferring to put their money into property. stocks and bonds account for less than percent of their total investment, it said..