canadian department store retailers, rocked by the invasion of u.s. giant wal mart, now face the specter of another u.s. buyout after thursday's bankruptcy protection filing by the venerable eaton's chain.. although some analysts bet that eaton's would shed up to half of its odd stores, others speculated that a u.s. retailer might acquire all or part of the year old chain owned by one of canada's richest families, the eatons.. toronto based t. eaton co. ltd., canada's fifth largest department store chain with annual sales of c$. billion ($. billion), received court permission on thursday to continue the operations of its retailing unit while negotiating a restructuring plan.. eaton's arranged financing of c$ million ($ million) from general electric capital canada inc... canadian department stores have bled market share in recent years due to a weak economy and the arrival of bentonville, ark. based discounter wal mart stores inc.. wal mart has quickly seized the lead in canadian retailing market share, with percent. amid this onslaught, several canadian retailers have declared bankruptcy.. one analyst, who declined to be identified, said publicly owned canadian retailers such as hudson's bay co. and sears canada inc. would be especially hard hit if a second major u.s. retailer emerged in canada.. "if a u.s. guy doesn't come in, it'll be positive for hudson's and sears," he said. if not, "that's the worst of all worlds...it makes it much tougher." sears canada is percent owned by chicago based sears, roebuck and co... another analyst estimated a revamped eaton's would be worth about c$ million ($ million).. the list of rumored suitors includes j.c. penney co. inc., dayton hudson corp., dillard department stores inc., federated department stores inc. and nordstrom inc... duncan muir, spokesman for plano, texas based j.c. penney, declined to comment specifically on eaton's, saying. "we from time to time look at canada, like other countries," he said.. minneapolis based dayton hudson spokeswoman susan eich said, "we really don't have any plans to expand internationally. we think we have more than enough opportunities in the u.s.". seattle based nordstrom spokeswoman amy jones said, "we currently have nothing on our schedule for canada.". some canadian discount retailers were also seen possibly acquiring some of eaton's unwanted locations, analysts said.. eaton's president george eaton, whose great grandfather timothy opened eaton's first store in toronto in , did not disclose how many stores would be closed or how many of its , employees would be let go.. analysts have estimated to stores in some of canada's smaller towns would be shuttered.. in court documents, eaton's said it lost an estimated c$ million ($ million) in fiscal ended jan. on revenues of c$. billion ($. billion)..