toronto's key stock index soared to close more than one percent higher on monday but the broader market ended mixed as gold issues slipped on weaker bullion prices.. the toronto stock exchange's key composite index jumped . points, or . percent, to ... trading was moderately heavy at . million shares worth c$. billion ($. billion).. despite broad gains, declining issues still outnumbered advances to while stocks were unchanged.. "quite a blue chip rally," remarked portfolio manager josef schachter, head of schachter asset management.. schachter said investors concluded canada's largest equities market had fallen enough in recent weeks to account for a basis point hike in u.s. short term interest rates.. the u.s. federal reserve is widely expected to raise rates at its federal open market committee meeting on tuesday.. investors are saying "okay, we can get a quarter point, we can live on that," schachter said.. of toronto's sub indices, posted gains led by financial services, pipelines, consumer products and media.. the only two weak sectors were gold and real estate.. bullion prices ended weaker on monday with comex april gold down us$. at us$. an ounce.. hot stocks included bre x minerals ltd. which led heavy traders and closed up . at . on volume of six million shares.. the calgary based gold prospector on monday defended the accuracy of assay results and resource calculations for the busang gold find in indonesia.. doubts about the size of the discovery pushed bre x shares to a week low of . on friday.. in other bre x news, u.s. brokerage lehman brothers cut its rating on the stock to neutral from outperform.. another active issue was forestry firm avenor inc., adding . to close at on , shares.. avenor said on monday that it will refuse a merger proposal from domtar inc. and will instead focus on a merger with repap enterprises inc.. but the avenor/repap deal was put in doubt on monday after canada's largest pension fund, caisse de depot et placement, gave the deal a thumbs down. the caisse holds a percent stake in avenor.. repap fell . to close at . on , shares, while domtar lost . to close at . on , shares..