toronto stocks closed softer in moderate trading on wednesday, dragged lower by fears of canadian interest rate hikes a day after the u.s. federal reserve increased short term interest rates.. the toronto stock exchange's key composite index slipped . points to .. trading was moderate at . million shares worth c$. billion ($ million).. "we react usually what happens to the u.s. maybe one day after," said montreal based portfolio consultant ron meisels. u.s. markets dipped yesterday after a widely expected quarter point rise in the u.s. fed funds rate.. "people are worried that there will be a similar raising of rates in canada," meisels said.. of toronto's sub indexes, tumbled, led by the interest sensitive banks and pipelines along with transportation and consumer products.. the strong groups were real estate, golds, utilities and industrial products.. declining issues beat out advances almost two to one to while traded flat.. in other news, toronto market watchers were rocked by news that bre x minerals ltd., with one of the hottest gold stories of recent years, may have "insignificant amounts of gold" in the busang discovery in indonesia.. trading in calgary, alberta based bre x was halted all day on wednesday.. bre x's partner, freeport mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc., based in new orleans, said tests so far showed "insignificant" gold in what has been called the biggest gold find this century.. bre x chief executive david walsh said in a statement that "there appears to be a strong possibility that the potential gold resources...have been overstated because of invalid samples and assaying of those samples.". a toronto stock exchange official said the exchange did not know when bre x, part of toronto's key and indexes, would resume trading. it closed at . on tuesday.. in individual issues, business applications software cognos inc. jumped . to ., boosted by strength in u.s. high technology issues, analysts said.. "it was a very strong day today for techs," said analyst james moore at brokerage alex brown &amp; sons. "cognos is one of the quality names in the group.". "the stock has been oversold in the last couple of months by momentum investors," moore added.. tee comm electronics inc. lost more than percent of its value, falling . to . in heavy trading. the company said it continued to proceed with plans to raise money to grow its subscriber base for its digital satellite service..