toronto's key stock index ended flat after a quiet session on monday, kept in check by weakness in resource and bank stocks despite a rally on wall street.. the toronto stock exchange's composite index edged up . points to close at .. turnover was moderate at . million shares worth c$. billion (us$ million).. "new york doesn't have quite the resources weight to pull them south like toronto does," said dunnery best, midland walwyn's director of private client investing.. "new york is still being driven ahead by technologies and the wave of good earnings," he said.. canada's largest stock market was also hurt by concern over a weakening currency, best said.. the dollar ended softer on monday at c$. (us$.) from friday's close of c$. (us$.) on fears that the bank of canada may have to raise short term interest rates to defend the currency during the canadian election campaign.. foreign investors were worried that political rhetoric over quebec's separatist movement may heat up over the next few weeks, best said.. bank stocks, which have attracted foreign investors in recent months, lost ground on monday.. of toronto's sub indices, six fell led by financial services, transportation, oils, and pipelines. gaining groups included conglomerates, real estate and media.. declining stocks outpaced advancing issues to . another stocks traded flat.. among hot stocks, gold prospector bre x minerals ltd. was the most active issue, adding . to . on nearly million shares.. investors are debating the future of bre x's busang gold deposit in indonesia ahead of this week's audit report by strathcona mineral services ltd.. toronto dominion bank, canada's fifth largest bank, lost . to . in active dealings.. cambridge shopping centres ltd. jumped . to . after launching a friendly c$ million (us$. million) takeover offer for markborough properties inc. in a bid to increase its ownership of canadian malls.. markborough shares sliped . to ... hudson's bay co., canada's largest department store retailer, jumped . to . after monday's news that it appointed former wal mart stores inc. executive william fields to replace retiring chief executive officer and president george kosich.. ((lydia.zajc@reuters.com, reuters toronto bureau () )).