cell cycle regulation of a novel dna binding complex in saccharomyces cerevisiae with ef like properties.. . using a biochemical approach, we have detected an activity in saccharomyces cerevisiae extract that displays the same dna binding specificity as the mammalian ef transcription factor and interacts with tttcgcgc promoter elements. additional studies revealed that this factor, termed scela (s. cerevisiae ef like activity), also binds to the closely related scb promoter sequences. scb sites (consensus. tttcgtg) are involved in the cell cycle regulation of several s. cerevisiae cyclin genes and have been shown to interact with the heterodimeric yeast swi swi complex. however, genetic studies clearly demonstrate that scela is not related to swi or swi. these experiments imply that scb sites are able to interact with at least two activities. swi swi and scela. because scb sites are critical for the periodic activation of cell cycle genes, we asked whether scela is regulated during yeast cell cycle. employing a temperature sensitive strain, we were able to demonstrate that the dna binding activity of scela oscillates during the cell cycle and reaches its maximum at the transition between the g and s phases. preliminary studies suggest that this fluctuation is mediated by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events. further characterization of scela by uv cross linking experiments indicate a molecular mass of kda for this activity. in addition, we present evidence strongly suggesting that scela is actually the dna binding moiety of a large kda protein complex. together, these studies firmly indicate that scela (as part of a larger complex) plays a critical role in cell cycle regulation of scb containing genes, such as cln cyclins and ho endonuclease. this hypothesis is consistent with other studies that conclude that the scb mediated cell cycle oscillation of cln cyclins and ho requires activities that are distinct from swi swi. finally, it is worth mentioning that the similarities between scela and ef, which is a crucial component in mammalian cell cycle regulation, extend well beyond the dna binding specificity. in analogy to ef, scela oscillates during the cell cycle, interacts with other cellular activities, and binds to promoter elements that are known mediators of cell cycle control. we will discuss possible functions for scela in yeast cell cycle regulation and its relationship to ef.