molecular structure of a gene, vma, encoding the catalytic subunit of h(+) translocating adenosine triphosphatase from vacuolar membranes of saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . subunit a of the vacuolar membrane h(+) translocating adenosine triphosphatase of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae contains a catalytic site for atp hydrolysis. n terminal sequences of six tryptic peptides of the subunit were determined. based on the peptide sequence information, a base oligonucleotide probe was synthesized, and the gene encoding the subunit (vma) was isolated from a genomic dna library by hybridization. the nucleotide sequence of the gene predicts a polypeptide of , amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of , daltons, which is much larger than the value kda estimated on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels. n and c terminal regions of the deduced sequence (residues and ,) are very similar to those of the catalytic subunits of carrot ( kda) and neurospora crassa ( kda) vacuolar membrane h(+) atpases ( and % identity over residues, respectively). the homologous regions also show about % sequence identity over residues with beta subunits of ff atpases. in contrast, the internal region containing amino acid residues (residues ) shows no detectable sequence similarities to any known atpase subunits and instead is similar to a yeast endonuclease encoded by the ho gene. none of the six tryptic peptides is located in this internal region. northern blotting analysis detected a single mrna of . kilobases, indicating that the gene has no introns. although the reason for the discrepancy in molecular mass is unclear at present, these results suggest that a novel processing mechanism, which might involve a post translational excision of the internal region followed by peptide ligation, operates on the yeast vma product. the vma gene has proven to be the same gene as the tfp gene (shih, c. k., wagner, r., feinstein, s., kanik ennulat, c., and neff, n. () mol. cell. biol. , ) whose dominant mutant allele (tfp ) confers a dominant trifluoperazine resistance and ca(+) sensitive growth. this and our findings suggest that the vacuolar membrane h(+) atpase participates in maintenance of cytoplasmic ca+ homeostasis.