russia's norilsk nickel mining and smelting company said on thursday a cash crisis could tarnish its plans to become the world's top nickel producer in .. the company had to cut costs, and to do that successfully it needed the government's cooperation.. norilsk, previewing of one of the puniest payouts yet seen in russia's emerging market, also said its board would recommend at an annual shareholders meeting on friday a privileged share dividend of just two roubles an infinitesimal sum in dollar terms and way below 's roubles.. norilsk is a leading global producer of nickel and metals such as platinum and palladium. it aims to boost nickel output by percent this year to , tonnes, taking advantage of idled capacity to become the world number one.. but norilsk spokesman sergei vetchinin said the firm could be frustrated by cash problems that are reflected in a dividend structure which recommends no payout on ordinary shares for the second year running.. "realisation of the production plan strongly depends on the decisions of the government with regard to our needs to cut costs," he said.. norilsk's production north of the arctic circle is profitable but vast expenses are pushing it into the red.. "we have a plan," vetchinin said. "we're not just crying...we are working to improve things.". but he added, "if our costs do not come down, and that will take place by the state taking responsibility for our social costs, things may change.". the state holds percent of voting shares in norilsk, a stake entrusted temporarily to commercial bank uneximbank, which is trying to revamp everything from norilsk units' finances and export revenue flows to the cost of supporting pensioners.. vetchinin said the board would vote on items that could affect the company's charter and uneximbank would vote according to state property fund instructions, but he gave no details.. at the end of , rao norilsky nikel was owed . trillion roubles ($. billion). it owed, through tax and other arrears, . trillion roubles, vetchinin said.. this has helped make its flagship mining and metallurgical complex one of russia's top debtors and a source of labour unrest that has in the past sent world metals markets gyrating.. but a company statement said workers were satisfied management was making progress in paying off wage and other arrears, which had been halved to six weeks, and that under a deal ending july , output would not be disrupted.. "the downhill slide has been halted and the proof is thus we have a team of managers, a programme and real resources for production," vetchinin said, adding the government could sign a decree restructuring the company's debt as soon as next week.. norilsk, which has said it could be near bankruptcy after consolidated losses of . trillion roubles according to russian accounting standards, likes to describe its problems as social and political, not economic and financial.. but some of its problems stem from market, not state, relations. vetchinin said norilsk wanted its natural gas supplier to cut its rates, not supplies, as it has since early june, forcing norilsk to run partly on heavy fuel oil.. russia also accounts for about percent of the world's palladium supply and around percent of platinum deliveries, with norilsk accounting for most of russian production.. "if you look at our production as separate from our other costs, it's profitable," vetchinin said. the main complex's profit margins on nickel, used to manufacture stainless steel, were percent, he added.. "but we want to tell our own state that if we don't get rid of our expenses, then our metal will cease to be competitive on world markets after ." ($ = , roubles).