soft drinks and confectionery group cadbury schweppes plc, expected to report a solid eight percent rise in first half profits on wednesday, faces questions about the performance of its up soft drink in the u.s.. "one of the main questions will be the success or otherwise of the relaunch of the up brand," said mark duffy, food manufacturing analyst at sbc warburg. competitor sprite, owned by coca cola, has seen an agressive marketing push and is ranked the fastest growing brand in the u.s. after cadbury's dr pepper. . analysts forecasts for pretax profits range from to million stg, after restructuring costs, up from million last time. a dividend of . pence is expected, up from .p.. a restructuring cost of some million is anticipated, with the bulk of it or about million, stemming from the closure of its smaller production plant in france.. most of the profit improvement is expected to come from dr pepper in the u.s., which will contribute earnings for the full six months period for the first time. . it bought dr pepper/up the third largest soft drinks group in america in january for $. billion, shifting the company's biggest profit centre to the u.s. from britain.. cadbury's u.s. drinks business should turn in about million stg in trading profit against million in the first half of , due entirely to the contribution of dr pepper.. all other areas of the group's business are likely to show only small changes compared with last year.. "the significant things are dr pepper, restructuring in europe and a touch of weakness in uk beverages," said john campbell, food and drink analyst at paribas. . "uk beverages is partly a weather issue and partly due to the fact that although gross margins are reasonaly steady, the market generally is just a bit more competitive.". campbell estimates uk beverages will contribute million stg in operating profit down from million last time.. broadly, analysts expect a pretty flat performance from the group's confectionery business, with a consensus forecast of million stg for operating profits. on average, analysts calculate beverages will chip in trading profits of million. . after the sale of its percent stake in the coca cola &amp; schweppes beverages (ccsb) operations to coca cola enterprises in june for million stg, many analysts want to see a clear statement of strategy from the company.. "the market needs more clarity on strategy following the sale of ccsb," said duffy. "we think it was a positive growth business and the sale came as a result of pressure from cola owned bottlers globally. it was not pro active at all.". there are some latent worries about the company's future growth strategy. . "all they see at the moment is a stronger business financially, with the fundamentals ahead reasonably positive but where will they find additional growth?" said campbell.. it lies in only fourth place globally in confectionery, behind nestle, mars and suchard, and could embark on buying confectionery firms in emerging markets.. it might use its big australian confectionery business as a launch pad into the growing far east sugar confectionery market.. but so far, say analysts, the company has not said when shareholders can expect a return on investments in emerging markets. one of the largest so far, a million russian plant. . cadbury announced an investment of million stg in building a new plant at wrocoaw in poland in and a joint venture in china at a cost of million. net debt at . billion at the end of should fall to about million by the end of as a result of the ccsb sale and providing there are no further acquisitions. gearing should fall from percent to percent over the same period giving plenty of scope for acquisitions.. there are also rumblings in the investment community about the logic of a tie up with pepsico globally, which would offer big cost savings in production and a good mix of brands.. london newsroom + .