british pub to hotel group greenalls plc on thursday reported a percent rise in profits before exceptional items to . million pounds ($. million), driven by its acquisition of brewer boddington in november .. "the year saw a good trading performance, both from the greenalls businesses and the former boddington estate," said chairman and chief executive andrew thomas. "trading in the current year has begun satisfactorily," he added.. exceptional items charged in the year ended september , , totalled . million, including . million for paying redundancy to former boddington staff and re organisation costs.. underlying profit before exceptional items and tax and excluding boddington increased by . percent to . million.. boddington generated operating profit of . million in the months after it was acquired and greenalls said it saved million in costs from integrating boddington into the group.. overall group profits before tax and exceptional items were at the top end of share analysts' forecasts, which ranged from to million pounds.. however, greenalls shares fell p to p after the company ruled out the sale of its de vere hotels.. "i suspect one of the reasons why the stock has come off is that they ruled out selling off their de vere brand at this stage. but we still remain positive on the stock because we see growth across all the businesses in a consumer led ," said james wheatcroft an analyst at panmure gordon in london.. in an interview greenalls managing director peter daresbury said the company's outlook for the christmas period was good.. "christmas bookings are looking very good and there seems to be a strong level of consumer confidence, although the snow and the fog has not been wonderful for the business," he said.. christmas is a critical period for hotel, pub and restaurant groups in britain and mainland europe with as much as percent of their annual turnover generated in december alone.. the company plans to spend million on developing its business in / with about million going on rolling out its greenalls pub concepts.. profits from greenalls inns rose . percent to . million when boddington is included. greenalls inns operates outlets nationally, of which are managed food houses.. greenalls branded pub restaurants and lodges which include so called millers kitchens and henry's tables improved profits by . percent to . million. de vere hotels lifted operating profit by . percent to . million as revenue per available room and occupancy levels rose.. ($=. pound).