pub to hotels group greenalls plc is seeing a strong level of christmas bookings and consumer confidence is picking up, managing director peter daresbury said in an interview.. "christmas bookings are looking very good and there seems to be a strong level of consumer confidence, although the snow and the fog has not been wonderful for the business," he said.. christmas is a critical period for hotel, pub and restaurant companies operating in britain and mainland europe with as much as percent of their annual turnover generated in december. . greenalls, owners of the strong de vere hotels chain, , pubs and off licenses, earlier reported a . percent rise in pre tax, pre exceptional profits to . million in the year ended september . greenalls has seen improved hotel occupancy and conference business as the corporate sector turned more buoyant and people took more leisure breaks in the year, said daresbury.. de vere hotels revenue per available room rose . percent and occupancy levels were up at . percent from . percent.. the company's chain of premier lodge's increased occupancy levels from percent to percent with revenue per available room up . percent during the year.. "we think that we are seeing a sort of steady pick up in consumer confidence and we consider that to be sustainable for to months," said daresbury.. greenalls is also investing to attract the non traditional pub goer who wants to eat out and is prepared to trade up by buying wine or premium lagers for instance rather than cheaper ales, he said.. this strategy should give the company more exposure at the top end of its pub estate to improvements in consumer spending, said daresbury.. the company plans to extend its pub concepts into of its managed estate over the next year and aims to build to new large city centre pubs.. it announced plans to spend million on developing its business in / with about million going on rolling out its greenalls pub concepts.. greenalls inns now operates outlets nationally, of which are managed food houses. drinks and food sales per outlet in its enlarged managed pub estate, rose . percent and . percent respectively.. greenalls inns pub estate was greatly expanded by the acquisition of boddington in november for million stg.. operating margins at greenalls inns managed estate were up . percentage points at . percent, which reflected changes in the mix of drinks on offer with more wine, premium lager and soft drinks on sale.. the company's branded pub restaurants and lodges saw food and drink sales per outlet up by . percent and . percent respectively.. greenalls' premier house operates outlets in britain, including millers kitchens, henry's tables, henry's cafe bars and seven quinceys.. analysts expect greenalls to turn in pre tax profits of about million stg in /.. london newsroom + .