british drinks group guinness plc on wednesday became the latest in a long line of companies to fall victim to the pound's inexorable rise on foreign exchange markets.. the company said it would take a million pound ($ million) hit to its trading profits in as a result of the pound's continued strength against overseas currencies.. guinness shares fell p to p before edging back to / as analysts talked in disappointed terms about the size of its currency hit, outlined in a trading statement.. "the actual underlying trading is exactly as expected, in other words small improvements, but the currency hit is more than most people were anticipating," said merrill lynch analyst john beaumont.. according to an edinburgh financial survey of brokers on reuters historical database taken on january , the consensus forecast for guinness' pretax profits in the year ended december , was . billion pounds ($. billion).. but most analysts now do not expect the company to breach the one billion mark. for , the same brokers forecast on average pretax profits of . million.. shares in food and drink giant grand metropolitan slid p to /p. at a rate of $. to the pound, grandmet says it stands to lose about million in profit every year.. the pound's advance began in august last year. from an index low of . measured against a basket of major currencies, its trade weighted index shot up to . by the year end, a rise of more than percent.. on wednesday, sterling was trading at . marks and $.. the pound started the new year at $., its highest level since it fell out of the european exchange rate mechanism in late .. but guinness' currency loss will be partly offset by a lower interest payments on its debt which analysts calculate should produce a saving of to million pounds.. in its trading update guinness said its interest coupon would be more than one percentage point lower in .. however, the company made positive remarks about its trading performance in .. chairman tony greener said "i am pleased that after substantially increased investment, our results will represent steady growth in profit performance for the year...". sales of spirits were one percent higher than in with notable growth in single malts and de luxe scotch whiskies and prices will be up . percent overall in . total scotch sales have recovered well in the second half, said the company.. most country markets have traded in line with the group's forecasts, with trading in latin america improving in the second half as venezuela and mexico recovered annual profits.. "business continues to be strong in asia, with further progress in many markets, notably in thailand, south east asia and korea," said the group.. but it said "unfavourable economic conditions continue to constrain sales in europe." in britain shelf prices of leading brands were kept at "target levels" over the christmas period.. guinness stout has increased volumes sold by five percent and draught guinness by eight percent in .. but the company said the beer market in spain has remained difficult, declining four percent, and drinkers switched from high margin on premise beer to lower margin take home.. but cruzcampo profits for are expected to be broadly in line with due to improved productivity. ($=. pound).