british betting and hilton hotel company ladbroke group plc on thursday posted a percent increase in pretax profits to million pounds ($ million) before exceptional items and forecast further good progress during .. chief executive peter george also made positive remarks about trading since its year ended on december .. "the same trend has continued in the last two months. the businesses are doing well. it does seem to be getting gradually better this year in mainland europe," george said in an interview. trading profits from its european hotels fell slightly in .. "in germany we have seen a few patchy signs of improvement. a few of our properties have actually done better in the first couple of months this year than last year but i would not say that augurs for a recovery this year.". "i think it will take up to another months for germany to come back.". revenue per available room (revpar) in hotels in mainland europe fell to . pounds in from . pounds. in london it rose to . pounds from . and to . pounds from . pounds elsewhere in britain.. "japan is still tough i must say, tokyo and particularly for us osaka where new properties have been opened," george said.. overall hotel occupancy levels rose slightly to . percent from percent and group revpar moved from pounds to . pounds.. ladbroke shares put on p to reach p in morning trade as the company's headline profit figure pipped the consensus forecast from brokers of million pounds.. "the results were a little better than our expectations at both the pretax and the earnings per share level," said nigel reed, industry analyst at paribas capital markets. earnings per share before exceptional items were up percent to . pence during the period.. hilton international, which operates hilton hotels outside the united states, increased trading profits by an underlying percent to . million, and the betting and gaming division grew profits by percent to . million.. ladbroke and hilton hotels corp agreed to reunite the hilton hotels brand worldwide for the first time in years in january. previously hhc had the rights to the hilton name in the united states and ladbroke owned them elsewhere.. "betting was much better than we thought and hotels were slightly under what we thought they could do," reed said.. ladbroke's retail betting business in britain showed a marked recovery despite the . million pound cost associated with jockey frankie dettori's unique feat of winning all seven races at an ascot race meeting last september.. on the casino side, the only disappointment was london's maxims club, where george said there had been a reduction in high stake gambling and the company had made provisions for outstanding debt.. but a weaker performance from ladbroke's casino division was more than offset by earnings in retail betting where trading profit rose to . million in from . million.. george said the company, which has decided to close down its property division, was still trying to dispose of two properties in the united states and one in israel which should make a total gain of about million pounds.. net debt fell by . million to . million, reducing the interest charge by . million to . million. at its peak three years ago the company was crippled by debt of . billion pounds during a deep recession in the property market.. exceptional items amounted to . million pounds included . million arising from the group's exit from commercial property and . million for the adjustment to the price of diy retailer texas homecare sold to j. sainsbury two years ago.. ($ = . british pounds).