british household products group reckitt and colman plc reported an percent rise in pretax profits to . million pounds ($. million) on thursday, saying the underlying performance of the group remained solid.. in an interview, chief executive vernon sankey said the group expected to see similar growth rates in sales and earnings in .. but the company's shares slipped p to p as the figures came in right in the middle of brokers' forecast range.. household products, comprising percent of group turnover, posted a nine percent increase in trading profit to . million. earnings from the pharmaceutical division grew . percent to . million.. the company benefitted from million of savings from its integration of l&amp;f products in north america, which it acquired for one billion pounds in . lysol, america's best selling disinfectant, increased its market share across the range.. the lavatory care category grew by . percent in africa and the middle east, and most of the countries in latin america showed double digit growth with harpic. floor care products in latin america achieved record sales, driving the group's regional market share up to . percent.. but economic conditions in europe continued to be tough and sales overall were flat although margins improved, said the company.. "mainland europe has been relatively flat for most of and i think it's too early to say europe is turning around. there are some reasonable signs. france and germany are still very tough," said sankey.. the strategy is working, he said, which remains to focus on number one and number two brands with global potential, use the group's wide geographic base and expand in developing markets.. about one third of reckitt's business comes from north america, one third in europe, a third from the the rest of the world. some percent of business comes from developing markets of africa, asia and latin america.. if sterling remains at its current high levels on foreign exchange markets it would hit reckitt by some million on translation next year, sankey said.. reckitt shares have risen by percent in recent weeks amid market rumours that the company may fall victim to a takeover bid by anglo dutch giant unilever.. but many analysts now think the bid premium makes the company too expensive as a takeover target.. sankey dismissed speculation that unilever plc would bid for reckitt as just rumour, saying the company has not been approached by unilever.. "it's a rumour and we have had rumours for years. we get rumours everyday, now quite frankly that is it," said sankey.. the company declared a total dividend payout of . pence per share up from . pence. including the foreign income dividend it was increased to .p.. ($ = . british pounds).