japan will likely become the largest international supplier of structural parts for the planned next generation boeing jumbo jet, boeing co. said on thursday.. boeing officials said the seattle based company was holding talks with three major japanese aerospace manufacturers fuji heavy industries ltd., kawasaki heavy industries ltd. and mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. aimed at significantly expanding japanese manufacturers' role in producing two "stretch" versions of the .. "the discussions will go on until later in the year, but it is likely the japanese industry will end up being the largest international supplier of parts for the x and x," boeing spokeswoman susan davis said.. while the three manufacturers provide structural parts for most boeing models, they were not among top suppliers for the current generation jet, another boeing official said.. the x would hold passengers in a typical three class configuration and have a range of , miles, compared with passengers and , miles for the . the x would hold passengers and have an , mile range.. the three japanese companies were already significant boeing partners, building about percent of the structural parts for the new as well as wing components and other parts for the current jumbo.. the japanese manufacturers would likely produce wing flight control surfaces and landing gear doors as well as fairings that join the wings to the body.. outside suppliers now provide these components for the current model with the exception of the fairings, which are made at boeing's plant in winnipeg, manitoba, the site of a recent five week strike.. last week boeing chief executive phil condit told a group gathered to mark a century of trade between seattle and japan that japan airlines co. ltd. was the company's biggest customer, having taken delivery of jets since .. "we strongly believe that strengthening of ties between our two countries remains crucial for the future," he said.. boeing hopes to land more orders from japanese airlines by increasing ties with japanese manufacturers, although davis said there was "no guarantee.". "they provide high quality parts at competitive prices," she said. "if it does happen to increase sales, it increases the work here in the u.s. too.".