microsoft corp.'s fiscal third quarter profit jumped percent to $. billion, well beyond analysts' expectations, on strength in its core business, including sales of its office upgrade, the world's largest software company reported thursday.. microsoft chief financial officer mike brown reiterated that he expects results in the current fourth quarter to be similar to the quarter ended march , which he termed "sizzling.". but in an interview brown also said he expects microsoft's growth to slow over the next five quarters based on difficult comparisons with year earlier quarters and a lack of planned major new upgrades.. net income, equal to cents a share, rose from earnings of $ million a year ago, or cents a share, in the third quarter. the number easily topped wall street's consensus analyst forecast of cents a share, according to first call.. revenues totalled $. billion, a percent increase over the $. billion racked up in the same quarter a year ago. analysts on average had predicted revenues of about $. billion.. microsoft released its latest results after financial markets closed. in after hours trading, the redmond, wash. based company's stock jumped $. to $. from its nasdaq closing price, dealers said.. "worldwide acceptance of microsoft office ignited these outstanding results," brown said in a statement.. office , the latest upgrade of the company's best selling software package, was launched in january. it combines "productivity applications" such as word processing and spreadsheets that accounted for an estimated $ billion of the company's $. billion in the prior fiscal year.. brown said microsoft also realised "solid gains" from sales of operating systems.. microsoft makes the bulk of its money from "platforms," including the operating systems preloaded onto new personal computers, which generate about one third of the company's revenues.. "however," brown cautioned, "incredible results like these are seldom duplicated, and we are mindful of the very tough comparisons we will have in fiscal .". brown said in the interview that the first quarter of fiscal could show a downturn from the fourth fiscal quarter of . he said he expected results to rise sequentially after that.. brown said he expected a spike in revenues from the office upgrade would begin to tail off in the current quarter, although deferred revenues from product shipped earlier would prevent a sequential downturn.. the next upgrade of office will not be out until fiscal , brown said.. "so, fiscal ' is in the product cycle valley from a comparison standpoint, and that makes the comparison tough, even if business fundamentals are very good," he said.. brown said he expected the revenue surge from the windows operating system to begin to tail off soon now that the product has been out months.. brown said he was "very excited" about the long term future but said the earnings bar had been raised to an "all time olympic record.". "we haven't had very many quarters in which eps (earnings pr share) went up percent," he said. "that's not a quarter in, quarter out type of thing. this is just an incredible quarter.".