the unexpected departure of compuserve corp's ceo robert massey may portend further woes at the second largest online service, and deeper than expected financial losses are one possibility, analysts said tuesday.. on monday, a holiday in the u.s., compuserve said that massey had resigned, effective immediately, and that massey wants to "pursue other interests." the troubled online service is expected to report a loss on thursday, when it is due to report third quarter earnings.. the first call consensus is for a loss of $. a share. . "when a top guy leaves right before earnings, you can expect a disappointment or a restructuring," said abhishek gami, an analyst with nesbitt burns securities. "maybe it will be worse than expected, but i think the expectations are already low." compuserve shares were off / to /.. compuserve has had a rough year, with increasingly intense competition from the leader america online inc.. "it is unfortunate timing, in that it was so close to earnings, because that always encourages people to connect the dots," said a compuserve spokesman. "but in this case, the dots aren't really there. it's all really speculation." . compuserve said that massey decided to leave for personal reasons, saying it has been a tough year, and that he wants to take a break from the prodigious hours he has been working.. "clearly there are also pressures for compuserve to return to profitability, that's no secret," the spokesman added. "but there is no direct cause and effect there.". the compuserve spokesman also said that the columbus, ohio based company has in the past issued a warning when its earnings will come in below wall street's expectations. it has not issued any such warnings in recent weeks. earlier this month, massey said its financial position had improved. . but massey declined to say when compuserve might return to profitability.. still, analysts said more bad news could come in the form of flat or even slower subscriber growth, at a time when rival aol's subscriber base continues to soar, or perhaps from a disappointment in its successful network services division.. "he jumped before he got pushed," said gary arlen, an analyst with arlen communications in bethesda, md. "their membership base is pretty flat. their growth has been negligible, especially in a world where beleaguered aol was adding hundreds of thousands of subscribers." . arlen said that compuserve has gained new members as a direct result of aol's recent network problems, but that these new members are "negligible.". in november, compuserve exited its wow! consumer business, a flat rate, family oriented service that it had unveiled with much fanfare. compuserve said that the flat rate pricing was not profitable and it will continue to focus on the hobbyists, small businesses and corporate users of its online service.. "now at least they are focused on the business market," said kate delhagen, a forrester research analyst. "h&amp;r block seems to think they need an overhaul." . h&amp;r block inc still owns about percent of compuserve, since it went public last april at $ a share.. frank salizzoni, president and ceo of h&amp;r block, will act as an interim ceo of compuserve, until another executive is found. compuserve said that it has hired an executive search firm to help it locate external candidates, but it is also looking inside the company.. "we want to proceed at a brisk pace," the spokesman said, when asked if compuserve has a specific deadline to replace massey. "it's more important to get the right person than to get someone quickly." . salomon brothers analyst marc usem said in a report to clients that while the short term effect of massey's departure is negative, it may work to compuserve's advantage.. "a more aggressive, marketing oriented ceo may improve the company's online service prospects," usem wrote in a note to clients, where he reiterated a buy rating on compuserve. he said that compuserve's network services unit alone is worth $. to $. a share.. analysts said that while compuserve has been hurt by aol's success, many of the proprietary online services have closed or have seen problems as the internet becomes more popular..