compuserve corp is in talks to be acquired by america online inc, a move that would bring new members to aol, beef up its network and expand its corporate and international presence, industry sources said on wednesday.. earlier, compuserve and h&amp;r block inc confirmed market rumors that they were in discussions for a possible "business combination" involving compuserve. neither compuserve nor h&amp;r block, which owns about percent of the computer online service, would provide further details. . industry sources said aol was involved in talks to buy its beleaguered competitor, possibly in an all stock transaction.. "it's part of the consolidation mechanism that is taking place in the marketplace," said frank dzubeck, president of communications network architects in washington. "they have had conversations off and on....probably this conversation has gotten reasonably heavy since aol got into problems having to spend all sorts of money on its network." . an h&amp;r block spokeswomen said she could not elaborate on a statement that confirmed block and compuserve were engaged in external discussions regarding a possible business transaction with compuserve.. aol declined to comment on the market rumors of talks with compuserve. . while aol shares jumped on tuesday as rumors circulated in the market, the stock retreated / on wednesday to /, as some analysts said such a deal would prove distracting and costly for aol, given its current problems achieving profitability.. "there is not a lot of value to the compuserve subscriber base," said jamie kiggen, a cowen &amp; co analyst.. "there is no guarantee they would stay with aol. it would be a very dilutive and distracting acquisition for aol," he said. "aol is just about to turn profitable here, and we don't need them to buy a money losing company." . "there is no good reason for aol to buy compuserve," said abhishek gami, a nesbitt burns securities analyst. "if aol does buy them, it would be a major negative for aol.". he said a merger would raise the eyebrows of antitrust regulators at the u.s. justice department because it would result in a big gain in aol's share of the u.s. online services market.. aol, the no. online service, currently has eight million members. compuserve is second with . million in the united states and europe and . million licensed members in japan, where it receives royalty payments. . however, aol and compuserve both provide internet access, and that market has many more players than the proprietary online service business, where there are only four main providers.. analysts said aol would have to pay for any deal with stock because of its cash position is low. its cash and equivalents were listed at $ million at the end of . using aol's stock to pay for the . million compuserve shares outstanding (of which h&amp;r block owns about million) would dilute aol's shares.. despite the negative reactions, some analysts said a compuserve merger could be appealing to aol. . integration of the contrasting images of aol and compuserve could also present a big problem. aol is mainly seen as a consumer online service, while compuserve is more oriented to business customers and users with more technical sophistication.. indeed, some analysts said it would be difficult to convert die hard compuserve users to aol.. "domestically, being a compuserve user is almost a positive statement that one is not an aol user," said adam schoenfeld, a jupiter communications analyst. "aol has probably already poached every compuserve user possible." some analysts said. that compuserve might be a better match for one of the regional bell operating companies, some of whom are still seeking to enter the internet access business.. "it has a national network and a well known brand name that could be reinvigorated," said peter krasilovsky, an analyst with arlen communications inc in bethesda, maryland. "you don't want to count out the telcos.".