the house approved legislation wednesday to usher in the largest overhaul of the federal public housing programme since its creation in the new deal era of president franklin roosevelt.. the bill, approved , ends many federal rules and is meant to give local housing authorities more power and leeway to run the nation's , public housing developments.. officials would have more authority to raise and lower rents and select who occupies low income housing. the legislation would scrap the landmark housing act of .. the clinton administration opposes the measure, saying it would throw the very poor out of public housing and replace them with moderate income residents. administration officials hope to craft a compromise between the bill and a less deregulatory version in the senate closer to their liking.. supporters of the house bill say it would help make public housing residents less reliant on government programmes. and they argue it would encourage tenants to assume a greater role in their community. unemployed tenants would have to perform community service without pay a provision democrats liken to slavery.. opponents also charge the legislation would punish the poor, abandon the government's commitment to the needy, and possibly swell the ranks of the homeless.. "the republicans over the next years will throw percent of the very poor out of public housing," said massachusetts democrat representative joseph kennedy.. but new york republican representative rick lazio, argued. "the house has taken a bold and decisive step to reverse the failed federal housing policies of the last years. we are transforming public housing from a way of life into a way to a better life.". the house and senate passed separate bills in but failed to iron out a compromise before congress adjourned.. the new bill covers the nearly seven million people living in public housing or receiving rental aid. today, the federal government contracts with the nation's , public housing authorities, which own and operate the housing developments.. in exchange for federal dollars, housing authorities run the programmes under close scrutiny from the federal government.. the house bill would.. combine about a dozen spending programmes into two block grants to be administered by local public housing authorities.. mandate that percent of public housing residents be among the very poor with incomes of no more than percent of a community's median income. current law has a percent ceiling on the number of extremely poor residents.. require able bodied, unemployed persons who live in public housing or who receive rental assistance to perform eight hours a month of community service or get job training.. allow tenants to pay either a flat rent or an amount up to percent of their income. supporters argue the existing system, which links a tenant's rent to income, creates a disincentive to work because rent increases with income.. make it easier to evict drug dealers and criminals from public housing, and demolish and replace decrepit housing.. require speedy improvement of troubled public housing authorities or the ouster of their management.. let local governments enter pacts with hud to receive public housing money and rental assistance funds directly from the federal government. local officials would have to adhere to certain standards, but would get more flexibility to spend the money in ways tailored to their individual needs.. the legislation would authorise spending of $. billion for the fiscal year beginning oct. , and a total of $. billion through ..