four regional bell telephone companies reported strong fourth quarter results tuesday, riding a wave of demand for extra phone lines, wireless phones and "smartphone" services like caller id.. two sets of merger partners bell atlantic corp. and nynex corp. and sbc communications inc. and pacific telesis group all produced results fairly close to analysts increasingly ambitious expectations.. "these companies have clearly raised the bar on expectations for demand growth. it should be sustainable for ," said analyst richard klugman of brokers painewebber.. the bells have been powered by the mushrooming demand for phone lines to link home computers to the internet, falling costs of mobile phone service, which has lured more users; and by technology to get more from a phone call call waiting, caller id and call management systems.. even the companies are surprised by the market's power.. "i'm amazed by how much momentum we have. frankly, its in advance of our business plans, and its due to both the healthy economy and an overall exploding telecom marketplace," sbc chief financial officer don kiernan said in an interview.. however, the bells' stocks continue to be subdued, as investors worry about who will win when regional bells and long distance companies follow the lead of telecommunications deregulation and enter each others' markets later this year.. nynex corp. said its net income rose percent to $. million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter from $. million, or cents a share, in the period.. revenue edged up . percent to $. billion from $. billion, the new york based company said. it was reduced by a change in accounting for directory revenues, the assessment of prior period service rebates and nynex's decision not to stimulate certain markets while it was in the process of improving services.. philadelphia based bell atlantic corp. said its profits, depressed by one time items, fell to $ million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter, from $ million, or cents a share, a year earlier. sales grew to $. billion from $. billion.. excluding onetime gains and losses, however, bell atlantic's operating income rose . percent to $ million from $ million.. "we posted strong gains in our key communications markets in as we prepare to complete our merger with nynex in ," said bell atlantic chairman raymond smith.. the two companies agreed to merge in april , hoping to create a company with over $ billion in market value. the deal is expected to be completed by the end of march.. for the year, bell atlantic earned $. billion, or $. a share, on revenue of $. billion. in , it earned $. billion, or $. a share, on sales of $. billion.. "both bell atlantic and nynex reported better than expected results compared to analysts' consensus," said bill vogel, analyst at brokers dillon reed.. "bell atlantic had a very strong and robust quarter. there were quite a few charges in the quarter, but fundamental volumes of the business are at or above expectations," he said. "for nynex it was the first back to back years with double digit earnings growth.". sbc communications inc., parent of southwestern bell telephone co., said its net income rose . percent to $. million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter from $. million, or cents a share, in the year ago period.. "our outstanding financial performance was driven by excellent results by our wire line and wireless businesses, as strong demand and effective marketing led to the addition of a total of . million customer lines during the year," said edward whitacre jr., chairman of the san antonio, texas based company.. pacific telesis reported profits of $ million, or cents a share, before one time adjustments, down from $ million, or cents a share, last year. excluding adjustments, net income rose to $ million, or cents a share.. the parent of san francisco based pacific bell said its earnings before adjustments were driven by expanding business in data delivery and new custom calling services, as well as increases in access line and minutes of use volume.. nynex closed unchanged at $., bell atlantic fell cents to to $, sbc fell cents to $., and pacific telesis rose . cents to $., all on the new york stock exchange..