the japanese aerospace industry is likely to become the largest international supplier of structural parts for the planned next generation boeing jumbo jet, officials of the manufacturer said thursday.. discussions between boeing and fuji heavy industries ltd, kawasaki heavy industries ltd and mitsubishi heavy industries ltd are aimed at significantly expanding the role of the japanese manufacturers in producing two planned "stretch" versions of the , officials of the seattle based company said. . "the discussions will go on until later in the year, but it is likely the japanese industry will end up being the largest international supplier of parts for the x and x," said susan davis, a boeing spokeswoman.. while the three japanese manufacturers provide structural parts for most boeing models, they do not rank among the top suppliers for the current generation , another boeing official said. . the x currently being offered to airlines would hold passengers in a typical three class configuration and have a range of , miles, compared with passengers and , miles for the . the x would hold and have a range of , miles.. the three so called japanese "heavies" already are significant boeing partners, building about percent of the structural parts for the new as well as wing components and other parts for the current jumbo. . the japanese manufacturers likely will produce wing flight control surfaces and landing gear doors as well as fairings that join the wings to the body.. the components under discussion are provided by outside suppliers for the current model with the exception of the fairings, which are made at boeing's plant in winnipeg, manitoba, the site of a recent five week strike.. in remarks last week to a group marking a century of trade between japan and seattle, boeing chief executive phil condit said japan airlines co ltd is the company's biggest customer for s, having taken delivery of since .. "we strongly believe that strengthening of ties between our two countries remains crucial for the future," he said.. boeing hopes that by increasing the participation of japanese manufacturers, the company will increase its chances of landing future orders from that country's airlines, although davis noted that there was "no guarantee.". "they provide high quality parts at competitive prices," she said. "if it does happen to increase sales, it increases the work here in the u.s. too.". seattle bureau .