the role of rap in the regulation of the mat alpha locus.. . the rap gene of saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes an abundant dna binding protein, also known as grf, tba, or tuf, that binds to many sites in the yeast genome in vitro. these sites define a consensus sequence, [sequence. see text], and deletion analyses of genes that contain this sequence have implicated the involvement of rap in numerous cellular processes, including gene activation and repression. the mat alpha locus, required for determination of the alpha cell type in yeast cells, contains a rap binding site; this site coincides with the mat alpha upstream activating sequence (uas) and is necessary for expression of the two genes encoded by the mat alpha locus, mat alpha and mat alpha . we show that the mat alpha uas is sufficient to activate transcription from a promoterless gene fusion of the yeast cyc upstream region and the lacz gene. constructs containing only the mat alpha uas generated elevated levels of beta galactosidase activity which were indistinguishable from those of constructs containing the entire mat alpha intergenic region. further, the mat alpha uas has an intrinsic polarity of transcriptional activation; transcription of cyc lacz was six to sevenfold higher when the uas was oriented in the direction normally associated with mat alpha transcription. point mutations in the mat alpha uas that reduce mat alpha expression three to fivefold resulted in a bi mating phenotype, while a mutation that reduced mat alpha expression still further resulted in an a mating phenotype. we isolated plasmids from a high copy number yeast library that suppressed the bi mating defect of point mutations in the mat alpha uas, and the most effective dosage suppressor contained the gene encoding rap. a temperature sensitive rap mutant bi mates at the semipermissive temperature. double mutants at rap and mat alpha mate exclusively as a cells, at all temperatures, and do not express detectable levels of mat alpha rna. these data provide evidence that the rap gene product functions at the mat alpha uas in vivo.