australian oil and gas producer woodside petroleum ltd is expected on wednesday to report a percent surge in annual profit, after the first full year of production from its new offshore wanaea cossack fields.. petroleum analysts have forecast woodside to post a net profit before abnormal items of between a$ million and a$ million for calendar , according to a survey by profit forecasting service barceps.. the average of the forecasts is a$. million, a percent leap on 's pre abnormal result of a$. million. . but analysts told reuters the result could have been better than the forecasts suggested had woodside ironed out production problems at the new wanaea cossack operation in .. "we had (a forecast of) a$ million at the beginning of the year and we had to pare that back because of the production problems at wanaea," said david cliff, analyst with brokerage burdett, buckeridge and young.. the brokerage is now expecting a pre abnormal profit of a$. million for . . the wanaea cossack fields came on stream in november , but a series of technical and weather related problems has plagued production. output has rarely reached design capacity of around , barrels per day (bpd).. the cossack pioneer rig is still producing at well below capacity. production was running at , bpd in mid february but it had briefly dipped to , bpd earlier in the month due to another technical problem, the company said.. "it looks like it's going to be ongoing throughout this year, which is quite a surprise because they kept saying that 'we will fix it in three months'...," cliff told reuters. . "now they are admitting it is a very difficult problem and they might not be able to fix it at all this year without a major shutdown. we are revising our numbers (for ).". wanaea cossack fields are within the north west shelf, of which woodside, the operator, has an equal sixth share.. its partners are the broken hill pty co ltd, the british petroleum co plc, japan australia lng (mimi) pty ltd a partnership of mitsui and co ltd and mitsubishi corp chevron corp and the royal dutch/shell group. . woodside's hedging book also helped keep a lid on profits in , analysts said. forward sales in are thought to have fetched an average oil price of around us$ a barrel, below the average of spot crude prices for the year, they added.. macquarie bank analyst peter best said woodside's outlook remained strong, with reserves climbing and its half owned laminaria and corallina oil fields in the timor sea coming on stream around .. "once laminaria starts in say around , earnings jump to close to a$ million ... and they are sustainable at those levels for the foreseeable future," best told reuters. . melbourne bureau .