retailing group coles myer ltd is expected to report its first profit rise in almost two years on thursday, with improved margins helping to offset sluggish sales growth and boost first half profit by about five percent.. analysts said they expected coles myer to report a net profit before abnormals in the weeks to january of about a$ million to a$ million, up from the a$. million in the first half of /. . this would be coles' first profit rise since and follows a two year horror run of board turmoil and controversy over corporate governance.. analysts said they expected margins to have improved most at coles' k mart discount department store chain in pre christmas trading, thanks to a refusal to discount heavily.. they said the strong margins evident at k mart's major competitor, woolworth ltd's big w, were a good indicator. . "kmart was a disaster last year and given big w had a good result in the first half in a difficult environment, people are expecting kmart to have improved as well," said macquarie equities analyst simon shakesheff said.. "it's just a question of how much," he said. shakesheff is forecasting a a$ million net profit for the half year and a a$ million profit for the full year.. kmart produced earnings before interest and tax (ebit) of a$. million in the first half of /, down from a$. million the previous comparable half. . savage pre and post christmas discounting in cut the ebit margin during the half to . percent from . percent.. analysts said they also expected a slight margin improvement to boost performance at coles' myer grace department store chain, although not to the same extent as kmart.. "they look like they (the coles group) are recovering," said one retail analyst, who was forecasting a a$ million net profit for the half and a$ million for the full year.. "their christmas trading has been better and they've done better in department stores than some of the others like david jones," the analyst said. . coles' supermarket division was also seen improving as sales have held up in the food sector at the expense of the wider apparel and merchandise sectors.. the coles group has already posted its sales result for the six months to january , showing overall sales growth of . percent to a$. billion. this compared with . percent sales growth in the first half of /.. analysts also said profits from property sales in the first half would help boost the pre abnormal profit as coles puts property sales profits above the line. . coles said in december it would settle about a$ million of property sales in the first half of /, having sold around a$ million worth of property since july .. analysts expect coles' slight improvement from its low base to continue in the second half year, with forecasts for the full year ranging from a$ million to a$ million and averaging a$. million.. this compares with the a$ million net profit before abnormals posted in /, which was itself down percent on /. . brierley investments ltd, through its australian unit consolidated investments ltd, owns . percent of coles myer.. sydney newsroom .