the australian government will release the wallis inquiry's report into australia's financial system on wednesday at midday ( gmt) and is expected to respond to some parts of the report.. the five person inquiry, set up in june last year and chaired by businessman stan wallis, took submissions from the financial sector's main players about various options for reform. . these players' views on various reforem options were detailed in the inquiry's discussion paper released in late november.. their positions and views on the various options follow.. scrapping the 'six pillars' merger policy. in favour national australia bank ltd, australia and new zealand banking group ltd, westpac banking corp ltd, commonwealth bank of australia, st george bank ltd and australian mutual provident society (amp) and the australian competition and consumer commission (accc) said bank mergers should be judged in the same way as other sectors by the accc on competition grounds alone.. they said big bank mergers would not necessarily harm competition because of new technology and global competition. such mergers would create efficiencies, lower costs and could create australian banks big enough to compete overseas.. against finance sector union (fsu), national farmers federation (nff) and australian consumer association (aca) said big bank mergers would concentrate too much 'economic power' in too few hands.. equivocal the federal treasury said it was also concerned about the concentration of economic power, but did not explicitly favour the retention of "six pillars". the reserve bank of australia (rba) said one merger of the big four into three would not create prudential risk problems, but a cut to two banks would.. allowing big bank takeovers by foreigners. in favour the treasury, accc, st george bank and citibank argued foreign investment in and takeovers of big banks should be allowed because it created extra competition. the department of foreign affairs and trade said globalisation and liberalisation of trade meant the removal of such restrictions was inevitable.. against anz said foreign takeovers may see head offices shifted and create brain drain, citing the new zealand example. life office colonial ltd and westpac noted community concern over need for australian ownership and control of key assets.. scrapping rules limiting equity stakes in banks to pct in favour treasury, accc, life office national mutual said restrictions on industrials and other corporates owning percent of a bank (or percent with government approval) should be removed to open banks up to normal competitive pressures of having strong shareholders and allow better access to capital markets.. against life office and insurer mlc life questioned logic of allowing anyone to buy a big stake in a bank, saying it may lead to investors pulling out in times of crisis, weakening safety of banking system.. creation of a mega regulator, removal of rba's prudential supervisory role. in favour amp, national mutual, colonial mutual, nab and the treasury said mega regulator would be more efficient, help break down barriers to competition and remove moral hazard problem for government of government owned rba being responsible for stopping banks from falling over. they also said prudential regulation and monetary policy conduct by rba may create conflict of interest.. against most banks, the rba and isc said the rba should keep prudential powers over banks as rba was the only entity able to inject liquidity to save banks in crisis and had market knowledge and skills to monitor bank's prudential safety levels.. clarification of non government guarantee. in favour rba, treasury, westpac, national mutual said the current situation where deposits are not government guaranteed should be clarified so depositors know rba will try to ensure deposits are repaid, but cannot guarantee deposits. the current implied government guarantee also favoured banks over other competitors, they said.. deposit insurance scheme. against most submissions opposed deposit insurance, saying it increased moral hazard problem and penalised bank deposits in favour of mutual funds, who do not have deposit insurance.. opening up access to the bank payments, settlements system. in favour nab, treasury, national mutual, aussie home loans and various credit unions said access should be opened up to non banks and life groups to increase competition, so long as deposit taking institutions meet minimum capital requirements and were overseen by rba as banks are now.. against rba, cba, anz, westpac, st george bank and colonial said the payments system was so crucial to overall health of economy, it should only be open to banks.. canberra bureau .