the federal government will release the wallis inquiry's report into australia's financial system on wednesday at midday ( gmt) and is expected to respond to some parts of the report.. the five person inquiry, set up in june last year and chaired by businessman stan wallis, canvassed various options for reform in its page discussion paper released in late november.. the inquiry's report, presented to the government last month, will make recommendations about the following options;. mergers. * whether the government should abandon the current "six pillars" policy stopping mergers between the four major banks and the two major life insurance and superannuation groups. these six pillars are westpac banking corp, national australia bank ltd, commonwealth bank of australia, australia and new zealand banking group ltd, national mutual holdings ltd and australian mutual provident (amp) society.. * whether the anti monopolies body, the australian competition and consumer commission (accc), and the treasurer should both continue to have the power to reject or approve a bank merger. this system is known as "dual assessment.". wallis stated his preference for treating the financial sector in the same way as any other on competition policy, implying the "six pillars" policy and "dual assessment" policies were unnecessary.. foreign investment. * whether the current ban on foreign takeovers of the big four banks should be scrapped.. ownership of banks. * whether to scrap the current percent limit on equity ownership by a single individual or group in a bank.. prudential regulation. * whether to combine the functions of the four regulatory bodies currently operating into a single body that provides prudential regulation and consumer protection regulation for all financial institutions. this is the "mega regulator" option.. currently the reserve bank of australia (rba) regulates banks, the insurance and superannuation commission (isc) regulates life and pension groups, the australian financial institutions commission (afic) regulates building societies and credit unions and the australian securities commission (asc) regulates companies generally and markets in particular.. * whether to have a single national prudential regulator of deposit taking institutions (dtis) including banks and credit unions, and a separate regulator for insurance companies and superannuation funds, or,. * a single prudential regulator covering both dtis, insurance companies and pension groups, but not consumer protection regulation, or,. * to keep the current four pronged system.. deposit insurance. * whether banks, other dti's and the government should make more explicit to consumers that their deposits are in fact not government guaranteed, and,. * whether a u.s. style compulsory deposit insurance scheme should be set up to cope with depositer claims in the event a bank collapses.. bank payments system. * whether to open up access to the payments and clearing systems to non banks, allowing them to have an account with the reserve bank, issue cheques and operate digi cash, automatic teller machine and eftpos (electronic funds transfer at point of sale) systems.. sydney newsroom .