australasian based building products group james hardie industries ltd posted weaker annual profits on wednesday, but forecast its expanding u.s. fibre cement and gypsum units would drive a profit surge in /.. "for the first time in several years we have the production capacity to meet u.s. market demand," james hardie managing director keith barton said.. "if current trading conditions prevail, we expect very strong growth in (u.s.) sales and earnings to continue in the year ahead," barton told a briefing for analysts and reporters.. "(group) operating profit after tax for the current year will improve significantly compared to the past year," he said.. james hardie's net profit jumped to a$ million (us$ million) in the year to march from a$. million in /, but this was due largely to a a$. million abnormal profit from asset sales.. profit before abnormals fell . percent to a$. million because of sharply lower australasian buliding materials profits and this was in line with expectations.. but barton's comments at the briefing about continuing weakness in the australian and new zealand building materials markets prompted some analysts to downgrade their forecasts for the / year.. james hardies' australian operations, hit by a percent fall in home construction, slumped to a a$, pre tax loss in / from a a$. million profit in /.. new zealand profits fell eight percent to a$. million.. barton said competition in australia and new zealand remained intense and would continue to slice away at sales, margins and profits in /.. "the modest recovery in australian housing construction will not be sufficient to offset the impact of growing competition on our australian fibre cement business," barton said.. increased imports would pressure margins and volumes in new zealand, he said.. barton also told the analysts briefing that new competition coming on stream in the united states and james hardie's drive to increase market share there would pressure prices down.. "we may have to discount ... be more aggressive against engineered wood products and against pvc," he said.. "but that doesn't necessarily mean a reduction in margins," he said, adding sales volumes would continue to grow and economies of scale were still to be obtained, barton said.. some analysts said barton's comments about australasian weakness and u.s. price pressure would force them to downgrade their / pre abnormal profit forecasts to about a$ million to a$ million from a$ million to a$ million before the results.. abn amro hoare govett building materials analyst fabian babich said he would keep his / forecast at a$ million.. hardie kept its final dividend for / unchanged at . cents per share, taking full year dividends to an unchanged . cents per share.. hardie is about percent owned by brierley investments ltd.. hardie's shares closed down cents at a$... (a$ = us$.).