knight ridder inc agreed on friday to buy the kansas city star and three other daily newspapers owned by abc inc, a division of walt disney co, for $. billion.. it also said it was going to divest knight ridder information inc, its on line information service for business and professional users, which includes dialog and datastar.. the transaction, the latest of several by a company that had once been a power in electronic information for professionals, focuses knight ridder more squarely than ever on newspapers.. owner of the miami herald and detroit free press, knight ridder remains the second largest newsaper group behind gannett co. inc.. "the information business is very competitive; the newspaper business isn't," said john morton, an independent newspaper analyst.. the disney/abc newspapers include the kansas city star, the fort worth and arlington (texas) star telegrams, the belleville (ill.) news democrat and the times leader in wilkes barre, pa., it said. revenue for the group was $ million in .. last year, knight ridder sold its knight ridder financial business news unit for about $ million to global information corp. it also got out of the cable television business, reporting an after tax gain earlier in of $ million to $ million.. "kansas city and fort worth are models of locally edited, reader friendly and marketing savvy publications. both evidence strong on line literacy as well. all of these are critical qualities in today's competitive environment," said chairman tony ridder.. he said much of the company's revenus comes from medium and smaller market newspapers, and the belleville and wilkes barre papers "will be strong contributors to that group. both papers have shown steady revenue increases since , with profit growth and strong margins.". abc was purchased by disney in for $ billion. the company has since said it planned to divest some of its publishing entities, but it has not been specific.. because of the proposed purchases, knight ridder's earnings during the first months will be diluted by about percent. minimal dilution will occur during the second year and earnings will show gains during the third year, knight ridder said.. knight ridder said it would finance the deal by issuing $ million in convertible preferred stock and assuming $ million of pre existing debt. it also said it planned to buy back at least million common shares during the next months.. morton said the disney/abc papers were already strong performers financially and that the operating monies from the papers would more or less cover the new interest payments knight ridder will be making.. wall street would be put off by the deal when stock trading resumes on monday, since many institutional investors worry about the long term outlook for newspapers, morton said. knight ridder was not trading in after hours dealings friday.. knight ridder is an international communications company engaged in newspaper publishing, business news and information services, among other things.. knight ridder said the deal should close within days..