philip morris cos. inc. chief executive geoffrey bible said thursday that the world's largest cigarette maker was open to "reasonable measures" aimed at resolving anti tobacco lawsuits in the united states.. bible declined to comment on negotiations between cigarette companies and anti smoking forces on a possible resolution of hundreds of lawsuits and stricter regulations facing the beleaguered but highly profitable industry.. but he told shareholders at the company's annual meeting that "we will listen and explore all reasonable measures.". he also said philip morris was willing to work with government officials to hammer out new regulations on tobacco sales, even as the industry fights a court battle against tough new restrictions on sales, especially to minors, put in place by the food and drug administration earlier this year.. "we are willing to work with responsible government representatives and others on a balanced system," bible said.. he did not spell out what initiatives he might consider, other than to say philip morris favoured restrictions on young people buying cigarettes and two years ago launched a programme to limit people under from obtaining cigarettes.. "we do not want kids to smoke," bible said.. anti smoking groups have said the industry targets its advertising to encourage young people to smoke.. at the meeting, philip morris shareholders rejected a shareholder proposal that the company adopt the same standards on marketing to youths outside the united states that it put in place domestically two years ago.. bible also said philip morris would continue fighting the of hundreds of individual, state and class action suits it faces "vigorously.". tobacco executives have met for the first time in recent weeks with state officials and anti smoking activists on possibly settling the massive litigation against the industry.. negotiators said on wednesday they had met on sunday and monday in chicago but reported that no deal was imminent, a white house official said after negotiators from both sides briefed white house deputy counsel bruce lindsey.. published reports have said the industry might pay as much as $ billion over years into a compensation fund for smokers who fall sick with lung cancer and other diseases. in return, cigarette makers would get broad shelter from lawsuits and would likely see higher stock market valuations on their tobacco and non smoking businesses.. outside the philip morris meeting, about protesters wearing giant marlboro cigarette costumes greeted shareholders arriving for the meeting at the company's biggest plant.. "shame on philip morris," read signs carried by the protestors from infact, a boston based anti smoking group that says philip morris uses its lobbying to harm public health.. marlboro, philip morris' best known brand, helps the company capture about percent of all domestic cigarette sales.. other protestors wore big "uncle sam" hats and took play money from the people dressed as philip morris cigarettes.. a spokeswoman for philip morris said the infact protestors were welcome to voice their opinions.. philip morris stock rose . cents to $. on the new york stock exchange..