british cable operator telewest communications plc disappointed the market on wednesday by reporting widening annual losses and telephony and cable television margins that were below expectations.. the group also told reuters it might delay building out its national network because of heavy investments needed to provide multi channel digital television and because of its plans to link up its seven franchise areas with its own fibre optic network.. annual losses before tax widened to . million pounds ($. million) from . million pounds while turnover jumped to . million pounds from . million, excluding the effect of franchise aquisitions.. telewest will lose its position as britain's biggest cable operator after the expected completion in the next few weeks of a merger between cable and wireless plc's mercury unit and three other cable operators.. the company, which announced fourth quarter and final subscriber figures in january, saw its shares slip three pence to /p in slim trade after the results.. alan lyons, telecoms analyst at brokers abn amro hoare govett said he was disappointed that the company's telephony margins came in at percent and at percent for its cable television operations.. he had been looking for margins of percent and percent respectively. "that really bodes badly for the business and that's what i'd take as the main bear point from the results," he said.. symptomatic of the growing competition faced by cable firms, telewest's finance director charles burdick said the group might seek to raise more funds for investment plans as fierce price wars keep a lid on margins.. telewest, which has about million pounds of debt, has secured a . billion pound bank facility of which it has so far drawn about million pounds.. burdick said telwest was considering "cherry picking" or slowing down the building of its parts of its national network, which covers percent of the country, in and to concentrate on offering digital television as the services comes fully on stream.. telewest, along with bell cablemedia plc and nynex cablecomms, has already signed a deal with general instrument of the u.s. in an attempt to gain the advantage over satellite broadcaster bskyb in supplying set top boxes for digital tv and information services.. telewest, which wants to complete the rollout of its national network by , also wants to link up its regional areas by the end of this year by laying new lines or leasing lines from other operators.. in this way, it can by pass high interconnection prices charged by dominant telecoms players such as british telecommunications plc and mercury.. capital expenditure over the year rose percent to . million pounds and burdick said telewest expected to spend a similar amount this year. "this year will be another year of substantial build," he said.. telewest said average monthly revenue per cable television subscriber edged up to . pounds from . pounds in , although average residential telephony revenue billed per line slipped to . pounds from . pounds because of a tariff price war with bt.. in business telephony, attempts to remain competitive helped drive the average revenue per line eight percent lower to . pounds per month.. telewest, along with other cable companies, has been placed on creditwatch with negative implications by standard &amp; poor's credit rating agency because of slower than anticipated network buildouts and competitive pressures from rivals such as bt and bskyb.. higher than expected capital expenditure and debt levels and a delay in operating cash flow generation in the industry has concerned the american agency.. but burdick said telewest had the best credit rating of all cable companies at bb plus and had had a "very productive meeting" with s&amp;p.. "we expect to have a response as a company and industry at the end of the month," he said.. ($ = . british pounds).