vodafone group, britain's biggest mobile telephone group, raised headline annual profits by . percent on tuesday and said it was plotting to overhaul its distribution strategy to kick start sluggish market growth.. vodafone, which boasts more than four million customers worldwide, lifted pre tax profits to million pounds ($. million) the top end of analyst expectations including gains from disposals.. turnover grew percent to . billion pounds and dividends rose percent to .p.. a maiden operating profit from its international operations of . million pounds helped boost profits and analysts expect overseas investments to take up the reins of future group earnings amid increasing competition and price cuts at home.. vodafone's chief executive chris gent told reuters in an interview that subscriber growth in britian was likely to continue to slow this year and vodafone might cut tariffs next year to help attract new customers.. vodafone last reduced tariffs around two years ago. but since then, its biggest purely digital rival orange plc has rolled out its network and the smallest operator in britain, one one, will also soon have a national network.. "i can see it (price cuts) happening again in the summer or autumn of ," gent said.. vodafone also plans to unveil new distribution plans next month, including rationalising its brands under one or two names and introducing a unified billing system to help win fresh subscribers, gent told reuters.. one one, jointly owned by britain's cable and wireless plc and u s west inc, highlighted cut throat competition in the market by repackaging tariffs last month and prompted concerns that britain is ripe for a rash of price cuts.. mobile telephone penetration is currently stuck around percent in britain, compared to around five percent in france, . percent in germany and the netherlands and a hefty percent in sweden.. gent, who is hoping that british penetration will rise to percent next year, expects the group to win only , to , net new subscribers this year, a touch lower than last year's , level.. "i suspect this year will be similar to last year perhaps a little bit down but not much," he said, adding. "i believe we'll see accelerated growth in the uk once we get beyond percent penetration.". last year already saw subscriber growth levels fall percent from / levels. analysts note that finland, which has almost three times the british penetration levels, is growing faster in a quarter than britain did in the whole of last year.. but broker sbc warburg adds. "in our view, renewed growth is a question of 'when' rather than 'if'.". gent puts down unenthusiastic growth to fewer incentives to win customers and a high level of churn when subscribers end contracts while customers migrate from its older analogue network to its digital services.. vodafone has around . million customers on its analogue network and some . million digital subscribers.. the company saw its market share slip . percent to percent and the key average revenue per subscriber figure the amount of profit the company makes on each of its customers fell to pounds from pounds.. vodafone is now growing faster internationally than in britain and gent expects , new customers to take up its international affiliates' services this year.. brokers lehman brothers expects overseas interests to contribute million pounds by / and analysts expect vodafone's shares, trading unchanged at .p on tuesday to start reflecting this value over the next nine months.. although vodafone said it was not actively seeking new licences, it will consider acquisition opportunities.. the company said it was "very likely" to exercise its option to raise its holding in sfr, france's second network operator, to percent this year. ($ = . british pounds).