regional telephone companies reported strong fourth quarter results tuesday, powered by growing demand for internet phone lines, wireless and other services like caller id and call waiting.. while the marketplace is growing quickly, the companies' shares continue to be overshadowed by the uncertainties of head to head competition with long distance companies, which are hoping to gobble up major chunks of the local phone markets at the end of the year.. nynex corp. said its net income grew percent to $. million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter from $. million, or cents a share, in the period.. consolidated revenue edged up . percent to $. billion from $. billion. it was reduced by a change in accounting for directory revenues, the assessment of prior period service rebates and nynex's decision not to stimulate certain markets while it was in the process of improving services.. bell atlantic corp. said its profits, depressed by one time items, fell to $ million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter, from $ million, or cents a share, a year earlier. sales grew to $. billion from $. billion.. excluding one time gains and losses, however, bell atlantic's operating income grew . percent to $ million from $ million.. "we posted strong gains in our key communications markets in as we prepare to complete our merger with nynex in ," said bell atlantic chairman raymond w. smith.. the two companies agreed to merge in april , hoping to create a company with over $ billion in market capitalisation. the deal is expected to be completed by the end of march.. "robust market demand for our communications products and services has produced record revenue growth and record earnings that will strengthen our competitiveness in existing markets and support our entry into significant new markets such as in region long distance," smith said.. for the year, bell atlantic earned $. billion, or $. a share, on revenue of $. billion. in , the company earned $. billion, or $. a share, on sales of $. billion.. "both bell atlantic and nynex reported better than expected results compared to analysts' consensus," said bill vogel, analyst at brokers dillon reed.. "bell atlantic had a very strong and robust quarter. there were quite a few charges in the quarter, fundamental volumes of the business are at or above expectations," he said. "for nynex it was the first back to back years with double digit earnings growth.". sbc communications inc., parent of southwestern bell telephone co., said its net income rose . percent to $. million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter from $. million, or cents a share, in the year ago period.. "our outstanding financial performance was driven by excellent results by our wireline and wireless businesses, as strong demand and effective marketing led to the addition of a total of . million customer lines during the year," said edward e. whitacre jr., chairman and chief executive.. pacific telesis group, with which sbc is merging, is expected to report earnings later tuesday.. southwestern bell had an outstanding year, with revenues up a record . percent, compared with . percent in . the growth was driven by a . percent increase in local service revenue, up from percent a year ago.. southwestern bell added , access lines during and , during the fourth quarter, compared with , during and , in the fourth quarter a year ago, for a total of . million access lines at the end of the year.. caller id, one of sbc's flagship products, expanded its market penetration to nearly percent..