at&amp;t corp. is earning more, but having trouble getting paid.. the nation's largest telephone company said wednesday that operating profits from continuing operations for the last quarter of rose percent, but said it had to put aside $ million to cover unpaid bills by customers.. the telecommunications company, which has now completed its split into three major units, said it earned $. billion, or cents a share, in the quarter, compared with $. billion, or cents a share, in 's last quarter.. chief financial officer richard miller told wall street analysts in a conference call that results for the first quarter of would be comparable or slightly above those of the fourth quarter.. revenues in the latest period rose to $. billion from $. billion.. the basking ridge, n.j. based company's fourth quarter operating profits excluded restructuring and other charges totalling $. billion, or $. a share. including these charges, its net earnings from continuing operations resulted in a loss of $ million, or cents a share.. competition has brought the company a new headache.. "it used to be if you don't pay your phone bill you didn't get phone service. now with multiple suppliers, we can shut off their service, but they can go someplace else to get service," miller told reuters.. the problem is worst among business users, particularly the hundreds of tiny long distance resellers, some of whom go bankrupt after ordering millions of network minutes from carriers like at&amp;t, mci communications corp. and sprint corp. in order to compete with them.. at&amp;t's fourth quarter operating net per share was three cents below the cents industry analysts had forecast, according to first call, mainly on the extra $ million in provisions for bad debts.. as a result, some analysts lowered their estimates.. "no one was expecting that," said bear stearns analyst bette massick. "you have to cut your number on that alone.". for all of , at&amp;t's income from continuing operations rose to $. billion from $. billion for , excluding the charges. earnings per share for were $., a . percent increase over $. per share in .. total revenues were $. billion, a percent increase over 's $. billion.. "at&amp;t had a record year in in the face of extraordinary challenges and unprecedented changes in our business and in our industry," said chairman robert e. allen.. in september , at&amp;t said it would restructure its businesses, spinning off equipment company lucent technologies in september, and it completed with the spinoff of computer company ncr at the end of .. at&amp;t also sold its majority position in at&amp;t capital corporation to a consortium of investors during the year.. at&amp;t said its communications services revenue increased $ million in the latest quarter, up . percent from the same period last year. communications services revenues include wireline services and wireless services, as well as communications products and other services.. it said its long distance calling volumes grew percent over the same period in and . percent over the previous quarter.. "the growth in traffic volumes (. percent) was better than the . percent we were expecting," said analyst richard klugman of brokers painewebber. "but they are still losing market share to the tune of three percentage points a year," he said.. at&amp;t's wireless services revenue, which includes cellular voice and data, messaging and air to ground services, grew . percent to $ million in the fourth quarter of . its cellular service subscribers grew to . million, a . percent increase from a year ago.. revenues from communications products and other services, which include consulting and outsourcing, on line, and wireless product sales, were $ million, an increase of nearly percent from the year ago quarter.. however, credit card revenue plunged . percent to $ million, primarily as a result of the securitization programme instituted at at&amp;t universal card services in .. credit card operating losses fell to $ million in the fourth quarter from $ million in the third quarter of . in 's fourth quarter, it made an operating profit of $ million.. at&amp;t's stock closed cents down at $. on the new york stock exchange..