despite the pressures caused by a weak tokyo stock market, japan's top banks will stick to their plans to dispose of . trillion to . trillion yen worth of problem loans for the / year to march , banking analysts said on thursday.. in the first half of /, the banks had already unloaded problem loans worth . trillion yen by loan loss provisions and other measures.. "though stock prices are weaker, (big) banks are moving ahead to dispose of problem loans as they had planned," said yukiko ohara, ubs securities co ltd.. on thursday, the share nikkei average ended up . points, or . percent, at ,... a spokeswoman at dai ichi kangyo bank ltd said that the bank had not changed its plans to dispose of about billion yen of problem loans in /.. a spokesman at yasuda &amp; banking co ltd also said it will go ahead with its plan to dispose of about billion yen in problem loans for /.. as of the end of september, the banks had . trillion yen in problem loans, the finance ministry said.. but many analysts have said that the actual amount is more than double that because of falling land prices and the huge exposure to construction and non bank financial sectors.. some of the stronger banks, such as bank of tokyo mitsubishi ltd, will set additional loan loss reserves for the bad loans sold to the cooperative credit purchasing co ltd (ccpc) in the latter half of /, analysts said.. the ccpc was set up in to buy problem loans and recover those loans. between march and september , it bought , problem loans for . trillion yen against a total book value of . trillion yen.. but banks will need to fill the gap between the sale price to ccpc and the current low value of the loan's collateralized land, because land prices have dropped about to percent from the peak levels, analysts said.. merrill lynch japan inc analyst yoshinobu yamada said that many of the top are able to cut the amount of their publicly known problem loans to manageable levels in / or in the next business year, if stock prices do not fall sharply from current levels at the end of march.. shares in the banking sector o#bnk.t weakened on thursday on renewed selling spurred by a growing belief that the shares had already reached their upward limits, brokers said.. sentiment was still bearish for the banking sector on worries over the bad loans.. but bank shares will not recover from a simple disclosure and a write off of their bad loans, unless each bank shows a strong will to boost profitability and to cope with tokyo's "big bang" financial deregulation, ohara said.. yamada said he expects low interest rates in the latter half of the current business year would increase operating profits at the banks by about percent from . trillion yen projected last november by the banks for /.. but japan's economic recovery is slow, so new problem loans may emerge, he said.. "for bank shares to recover, authorities must ensure the stability of the financial system, even if by injecting public money into it, and also give their assurance that the economic recovery will not falter," he added.. tokyo equities (+ ).