a year after being formed in a japanese financial "megamerger", the world's biggest bank is in better shape than its domestic rivals but faces tough challenges to become a genuinely global player, analysts say.. the creation of the bank of tokyo mitsubishi ltd last april through the marriage of two prominent japanese banks was touted as a good match with the potential to create a global institution in terms of quality as well as sheer size.. the bank has much to celebrate on its first anniversary a strong share price and a relatively light burden of bad loans, thanks to conservative lending policies by the individual banks in the investment boom of the s and a pre merger drive to clean up problem loans.. but analysts say tokyo mitsubishi will have to grasp the challenge of japan's "big bang" reforms and tackle efficiency and profitability problems to ensure sustained success and an international profile to match its giant proportions.. the merger of bank of tokyo and mitsubishi bank created the world's biggest bank in terms of assets, which exceed trillion yen ($ billion), blending bank of tokyo's strength in overseas operations with mitsubishi's good domestic network.. "of all japanese banks, tokyo mitsubishi has the greatest potential to become a winner in intensely competitive global financial markets," said yoshinobu yamada, an analyst at merrill lynch japan inc. but he said there was work to do.. "to be a winner amid fierce competition in deregulated markets, the key thing is to get rid of unprofitable businesses from the balance sheet.". "big bang" reforms aimed at making japanese financial markets "free, fair and global" by will expose banks to greater competition both from domestic and international rivals. the proposed deregulation will lift barriers between various financial sectors that have hitherto protected the banks' business territory.. a tokyo mitsubishi spokesman told reuters the bank was aware of the challenges and opportunities presented by the big bang and was speeding up its streamlining plans. more concrete clues to the bank's strategy will emerge next week when it is due to reveal a three year management plan.. "our aim in the first year was harmonising the two banks' ways of business without inconveniencing our customers," the spokesman said.. katsuhito sasajima, an analyst at nikko research center, said the benefits of the union have yet to be fully felt due to the initial cost of merging businesses and corporate cultures. "the real test in getting maximum benefit from the merger will come in the next business year and thereafter," he said.. analysts said its profits from the core banking business for the year to march , before bad loan write offs, should be robust. but despite its strengths, in international terms the bank has a low ranking for efficient use of capital.. some analysts said moves to cut back unprofitable assets may be hampered by the bank's desire to become an international player offering a variety of products.. in its reforms, tokyo mitsubishi may also be held back by traditional japanese corporate values stressing loyalty to key customers and a responsibility to protect jobs, even at the expense of the bottom line, analysts said.. "while foreign analysts say big banks like botm should cut lending to big corporate customers to boost profitability. i don't think they will do so even if the existing return on those loans is small," he said. "managers at japanese banks do not pay much attention to shareholders but focus on the size of profits and job security for themselves and their employees.". the bank stands out not only for its size but in the quality of its loans. problem loans accounted for . percent of overall lending at the end of september, the second lowest rate among japan's top banks.. the bank has said it aims to boost its return on equity (roe) ratio a gauge of efficiency in the use of capital to percent. but its ratio was a mere . percent in the first half of the current business year, from last april to september, compared with rates above percent for many u.s. and european banks operating internationally, analysts said.. to streamline operations, tokyo mitsubishi announced last year that it would cut its work force to , by the end of march . at the end of september , the number totalled ,. it also plans to cut domestic offices by percent over the coming two years from at the end of last march.. david atkinson, a financial analyst at goldman sachs (japan) ltd, said in a report that japanese financial markets are inefficient because banks have very large assets on their balance sheets at incredibly low levels of profitability.. "if city banks (such as tokyo mitsubishi) do not restructure their existing balance sheets but go into big bang by simply adding new businesses, then there will be no winners," he said. ($= yen).