sugar producers in china are worried that a flood of imports could swamp the domestic market and drive down prices already below break even point, industry and trade sources said on wednesday.. white sugar prices in china's southern production belt of guangxi province are still below , yuan ($) per tonne, in some places dipping to , yuan ($), traders and industry sources in china and hong kong told reuters.. break even point was above , yuan per tonne, and prices ideally should be up to , to , yuan per tonne for the factories to make any money, a senior industry executive said.. official chinese media reported last week that china planned to import , tonnes of sugar in .. of that amount, , tonnes would come from cuba, where, according to german statistician f.o. licht, the / sugar crop should be close to the forecast of . million tonnes.. the remainder of china's imports would come from thailand and australia, traders said.. official customs figures show total sugar imports were . million tonnes, . percent down on the previous year.. one hong kong based sugar trader said china's sugar imports would probably be closer to . million tonnes.. "the country has . billion people, they can consume as much as you put in there," he said.. a hong kong based executive responsible for several sugar facilities in southern china, however, said that unless the chinese government controlled the way in which the imported sugar reached the market, prices could be expected to worsen.. "it is a question of when the imports come in and how they are released on to the market," he said on condition of anonymity.. "if it is tightly controlled and it trickles on to the market, it would be ok," he said.. he said the experience of would hopefully have shown authorities the effect on the domestic industry of sudden and large injections of sugar on to the market.. that year, sugar imports hit . million tonnes, . percent more than the year before. much of the imports were illegal, prices plummeted and many factories are still trying to recover.. the sugar cane crop in southern china is now being harvested, and white sugar prices are expected to keep softening until the crop is all in, around late march/early april.. china's officially stated / sugar production target has varied over the past few months, in one case going over eight million tonnes. traders in the region have tended to put more store in an earlier figure of . million tonnes.. china's annual demand is around eight million tonnes.. once the harvest is through, market prices should begin to improve, giving factories a chance to drag themselves out of the red and repay loans taken out to pay farmers for their cane, an industry executive said.. factories have complained that the price they must pay farmers for cane is too high given the low market price for the processed product.. this year's cane price has been set at to yuan ($ ) per tonne, about the same as last season, though that was a percent increase on the set price. ten tonnes of cane produces one tonne of white sugar.. "all the factories are strapped for cash to pay farmers for the cane, and so are selling whatever they can get just to bring some money in," the executive said.. "while there is an overhang of volume there will be pressure on prices, and introducing another , tonnes will just add another element on top of that.". like the factory manager, he was cautiously optimistic that china's authorities had indeed learnt from .. "calculations we've done on the back of an envelope suggest that , to , tonnes will not result in oversupply," he said.. but he added that if imports did go as high as some traders predicted, "things will be quite serious"..