the sun is setting on china's soybean importing season, but far east traders have set their sights on as high oil stocks run out and the domestic crop falls by up to a million tonnes, trade sources said on thursday.. china's soybean imports so far in had reached , tonnes, a hong kong trader said.. import expectations for the remainder of the year would bring the calendar year total to , tonnes, he said. . another trader in hong kong said his day had been brightened by the prospect of a panamax deal at $ a tonne fob (free on board) for beans of u.s. and south american origin to the northern chinese port of tianjin.. buyers were joint venture feed mills, he said. domestic buyers were thin on the ground as the variety of taxes and charges made importing beans uneconomical.. domestic soybean prices were holding steady around , yuan ($) a tonne, traders said. . the dalian commodities exchange september contract was , yuan ($), which traders said was far away from the market, suggesting heavy speculative interest on the exchange.. traders throughout the region agreed current world prices were a good $ $ too high for chinese buyers.. "there are a lot of chinese inquiries at least , to , tonnes but most interest is at $ $," one hong kong source said. "but the price in the market is $ $, so we're still $ away." . "for beans, the price is too high and china cannot buy, but they don't need to be so aggressive as the new crop will go out (into the market) in late october/november.". expectations that china's soybean crop will be down two to three percent this year on 's million tonnes buoyed the spirits of regional traders, one of whom put china's soybean imports at . million tonnes.. by early , high oil stocks will have been depleted, and the domestic crushing industry will be in need of raw material. . chicago board of trade (cbot) soybeans futures closed lower on wednesday under the bearish influence of a report by the iowa based farmers commodities corp (fcc) predicting an increased u.s. soybean crop this year.. fcc raised its output expectation to . billion bushels, or . million tonnes, from a previous . billion. the usda estimates the crop at . billion bushels.. that news pushed prices down five cents to / cents per bushel lower, with september down / cents at $. /.. "sooner or later, if there is no major natural disaster, the cbot will go down a lot," a trading source said. . "china has banned oil imports this year and so the stock is decreasing," he said, echoing a long held trade view that china's vegetable oil stocks will hold through to year end.. "next year they won't have this problem, and the crushers will have space to store their oil," he said.. china's soybean harvest last november was said by trade and industry sources to be down at least percent on 's bumper . million tonnes. . traders have said chinese farmers in the northeast have switched some acreage from beans to corn, but that falling acreage could be made up by increased yield as the weather has been favourable.. traders said soybean import licences had yet to be issued by china's state planning commission. and while many said quotas were not needed to import beans this year, one did caution that "it depends on who you talk to".. his greatest fear, he said, was that his , tonne panamax deal would turn up at a chinese port, only to be turned away for lack of an import licence. . hong kong newsroom () .