far east metals traders on monday waited for london metal exchange (lme) reaction to reports that australia's mim will halve zinc supplies to europe.. mim holdings ltd said it was holding talks with customers worldwide on the impact of reduced zinc production this year.. nick stump, chief executive of mim, declined to comment on a reuters report quoting european smelter sources as saying that mim would reduce zinc supplies to europe by half this year.. "there is definitely a shift to asia, although to what extent we will have to wait and see," stump told reuters in sydney.. lme zinc prices were expected to rise one chinese trader in hong kong predicted zinc would hit new highs on the news but little direct impact was seen on the asian market.. lme zinc has traded at dizzy heights recently, hitting two year highs last week of $, a tonne.. consistent falls in lme stocks indicated the physical market would confirm the strong futures trend. last trade on friday was $,, up $ a tonne.. china exports around a quarter of its annual zinc output.. official figures show exports of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys rose to , tonnes, over 's , tonnes. december exports alone were , tonnes.. asian trading sources said that while the impact of the mim news on chinese prices would be limited, the continuing climb of world prices would encourage china's zinc producers to export.. "chinese smelters are looking at the lme price and so domestic supply is quite high now," the chinese trader, who represents chinese producers in hong kong, said.. domestic chinese prices for lme registered brands of chinese zinc, like torch, had hit , yuan ($,) per tonne, he said.. long term export contracts done by his company had been settled at $, per tonne fob (free on board) at major chinese ports, he said.. costly freight between china and europe would keep most of the chinese product in the region, chinese and western sources said.. vinod kumar, director of donald mccarthy in singapore, said chinese shipments of zinc ingots to singapore in the past month totalled around , tonnes.. "i hear there are another , to , tonnes on the way," he said.. he said china's total shipments of zinc in the past month to customers in the region, including south korea, taiwan and japan, were , to , tonnes.. "this is a fairly heavy level of activity," he said, adding that most of the material in singapore was being kept off warrant and therefore would not show up in lme stock figures.. "we are not putting what we buy on warrant, but selling directly to customers," kumar said.. kumar predicted a rise in lme stocks on tuesday of around , tonnes. lme zinc stocks on friday stood at , tonnes.. a metals trader in shanghai said unregistered chinese zinc ingots were arriving at major chinese ports at the lme spot price, less $ a tonne on quality.. her company was buying small lots up to tonnes at a time to sell onto japanese customers, she said.. "demand is there as long as the quality is not too bad," she said.. copper premiums were firming in some areas of the region, another trading source said. premiums to south korea had firmed in the past week to $ a tonne, from $ last week, on rumours of a major short position being held there.. premiums on arrivals at major japanese and taiwanese ports were steady at around $ a tonne, traders said.. the chinese new year holiday officially begins on thursday, february , and lasts five days but has already seen business activity throughout the region slow to a standstill that is expected to last until mid february.. the latest hong kong indications of premium or discount in us$/tonne over lme cash prices on a cif basis.. feb jan . copper . aluminium (western) . (cis) . lead n/a . (fob chinese ports) n/a. zinc (chinese) n/a . (chinese unregistered, fob shanghai). n/a. (western alloys) n/a . ($=. yuan).