copper and zinc were the main focus of attention for far east metal traders on monday, though china's exit from the market to celebrate the arrival of the year of the ox left a gaping hole in trading activity.. china has closed down to celebrate the arrival of the new lunar year. most chinese markets will be closed until february , though trading activity should start to pick up mid week.. a slight fundamental tightness in copper supply was seen throughout the region, a trader in singapore told reuters, adding that it was not being helped by high cash prices.. "even in mainland china we understand people are having difficulty in obtaining metal," he said. "obviously the high cash price is somewhat of a deterrent but if they need physical metal they just have to buy it.". three months copper on the london metal exchange (lme) ended the friday afternoon kerb at $, a tonne, after profit taking trimmed $ off thursday's closing price.. physical demand for copper in china for is expected to exceed supply by around , tonnes.. chinese media reported last month that china's copper demand should rise five percent over last year to . million tonnes. output is expected to be more than , tonnes, after 's , tonnes, market daily said.. copper imports were expected to remain high, the newspaper said. imports of raw and uncast copper in were up . percent in to , tonnes.. the few trading sources available on monday said end users of the red metal in asia were buying hand to mouth, but there was as yet no element of panic buying.. "if you start to see some significant increase in demand, then i think that's where the market will have some interest via higher prices," one trader said.. zinc enters the year of the ox as a bull for asian traders, some of whom thought recent rallies that have seen lme prices touch two year highs could be more in anticipation of upcoming tightness than a reflection of current fundamentals.. lme zinc hit a fresh two year high of $, a tonne in early friday trading, ending the day $ easier at $, a tonne.. what one asian trader described as "the magical and psychological level" of $, a tonne is the metal's next test, followed by the january peak of $,.. traders' optimism that current price levels would consolidate before true tightness hit the market in the second half of were being fuelled by this year's shortfall in global supply of up to , tonnes, they said.. lack of chinese activity in the zinc market during the holiday period was not seen by trading sources as impacting on price movements one way or the other.. but word that chinese producers had already moved , tonnes of zinc to singapore warehouses, and that another , to , tonnes was on the way, was indicative of their selling interest, traders said.. "i'm not sure that there is any interest in immediately selling it but they (chinese producers) are moving it very close to a market where they can sell it, deliver it and get cash in two days," another singapore source said.. chinese metal producers often moved their product to singapore, keeping it off warrant so it does not show up in lme stock reports but where it can be used as collateral, he said.. if the market remained strong, chinese zinc could stay put as producers waited for prices to rise even further, he said.. "if they hold off on the anticipation of higher prices, it is just a gamble, and how quickly they sell into a retracement is difficult to know but they certainly don't appear to be overly concerned at present," he said.. the latest hong kong/shanghai indications of premium or discount in us$/tonne over lme cash prices on a cif basis.. feb feb . copper n/a . aluminium. (western) n/a . (cis) n/a . lead n/a. (fob chinese ports) n/a . zinc (chinese) . (chinese unregistered, fob shanghai). n/a . (western) n/a. (western alloys) n/a n/a. ($=. yuan).