far east metals traders were preoccupied with one question on monday will china buy copper in the midst of the current rally, or are prices on the london metal exchange (lme) nearing precarious heights?. there was little doubt in the minds of most traders and industry sources polled by reuters that copper prices would continue their heady rise. . copper on the lme finished friday trading substantially higher, with technical buying and aggressive short covering taking the red metal to fresh / months highs despite an unexpected stocks increase of , tonnes.. it was $, a tonne at the afternoon kerb close, off the day's $, high but up $ from thursday's finish.. prices on the shanghai metal exchange (sme) have been mirroring the lme's rises since trading resumed last week after the long lunar new year holiday. . shanghai copper futures started higher on monday, with the most active may contract opening at , yuan ($,) a tonne, rising yuan from last week's close. it fell back a little to , yuan in early trading.. trading sources in hong kong and singapore said that as long as shanghai rises along with the lme and as long as the lme continues to rise the chinese should not be scared away from the market.. "we're starting to see the start of glimmers of interest from china to start re importing metal they lent," a trader in singapore said. . "but it is difficult at these high prices to see a lot of chinese buying, though the fact remains that if they need it, there seems to be so little on the ground in china that they will have to buy it," he said.. shanghai metal exchange figures show copper stocks at , tonnes, a level described by one western trader as "nothing".. the head of a big hong kong trading house said there had been some signs of chinese buying in recent weeks.. "but it's just a few hundred tonnes here, a few hundred tonnes there," he said, adding he had seen no indication that china's central reserve authorities had been in the market. . "they (chinese end users) do need to buy but they could be scared off by these price levels," he said.. "i think the lme will go higher i believe it will break $, (a tonne) before we see a correction.". premiums on copper arrivals in shanghai are now $ a tonne over lme cash metals pushing the price close to $, a tonne, an analyst here said.. arbitrage opportunities were seen kept in check by high costs three percent import duty and percent value added tax (vat). . "you're looking at healthy arbitrage opportunities looming, as long as there are discounts on the vat," another western source said, adding that big traders were often able to get waivers on the vat.. beijing's states statistical bureau last week released figures showing china's january copper production level at , tonnes, up . percent on january .. china's total copper production in was , tonnes, up . percent on , the bureau said.. physical demand for copper in china for is expected to exceed supply by around , tonnes. . chinese media reported last month that china's copper demand should rise five percent over last year to . million tonnes. output is expected to be more than , tonnes.. copper imports are expected to remain high, the newspaper said. imports of raw and uncast copper in were up . percent in to , tonnes.. feb feb . copper (fob shanghai) n/a. aluminium. (high grade western. c&amp;f south china) . (high grade western. c&amp;f shanghai) n/a. (cis) . ($=. yuan). shanghai newsroom ( ) .