the jump in london metal exchange (lme) zinc prices to a / year high, as yet, threatens no flood of chinese metal onto the market, but producers are sitting on a windfall, traders said on monday.. the main flow of chinese zinc exports is currently headed for japan attracted by its preferential duty free policy for metal imports from developing countries up until april , a trader with a european firm in hong kong said.. "chinese zinc is very tight otherwise and you won't see any indications for a while," she said. . lme three month zinc touched a / year high of $, a tonne on friday, before a slight fall back to close at $,, up $.. far east metal traders and producer representatives in the region agreed the metal has yet to hit its peak, with some expecting a consolidation around $, and others predicting a push towards $, before a consolidation.. official china customs figures show china's exports of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys in january, reached , tonnes, up . percent compared to the year ago period. . exports were boosted by high lme prices and a reduction in a chinese export tax on the metal from five percent in to nil this year, boosting the value of domestic zinc by $ a tonne.. "this year should be an historic year for chinese zinc metal exports if the price stays high," a beijing dealer said.. he said he believed total chinese zinc exports would hit , tonnes for january and february , and possibly half a million tonnes for the whole year.. china exported a total of , tonnes of unwrought zinc and zinc alloys in , up . percent on , the customs figures show. . but an executive with a western producer that supplies to the region said he had so far seen no evidence of increased chinese zinc sales to the asian market.. "the supply and demand fundamentals on physical metal are improving as far as expectations of price hikes and continued support go," he said. this would see prices firm further.. "i am telling my customers that it is best for them to place their orders as soon as possible, as the trend is rising and we don't know where it will go," the representative for a major north american producer said. . lme zinc could probably move up at least another $ a tonne and this would see premiums start to soften as producers and sellers tried to compete, he said.. traders pegged current cif special high grade zinc premiums in hong kong at $ a tonne over the lme cash price and high grade at $ a tonne.. the beijing trader said chinese smetlers were selling at a $ premium fob chinese ports. high grade was selling at a discount of $ a tonne, he said. . "i think lme zinc will be volatile," he said. "some people were saying last year they thought it would go to $, but i wouldn't be so bullish.". the latest hong kong indications of premium or discount in us$/tonne over lme cash prices on a cif basis.. march march . copper, cathode . aluminium, . ingot . lead, chinese . zinc, shg . ingots . shanghai newsroom ( ) .