china's corn exports have taken the world market by surprise and could double from current sales levels to more than two million tonnes for the year, far east grain traders said on tuesday.. "just based on done business, it sounds like their programme is big," a singapore based trader said of china's corn exports.. a trader in seoul said china's corn sales to south korea alone since the start of were , tonnes and could hit . million tonnes for the year.. other spot sales to southeast asia brought the total so far close to . million tonnes, the singapore source said, including , , tonnes of optional sales he said would probably be chinese product.. japan had yet to buy, traders said, having been badly scorched after china banned corn exports in december and reneged on some contracted sales.. traders in the south korean capital said on tuesday a group of local feed milling companies called the top margin committee bought a total of , tonnes of chinese corn late on monday.. sale prices of $. and $. per tonne inclusive of cost and freight (c&amp;f) indicated a free on board (fob) price of $ per tonne, with freight between northern china and south korea about $ a tonne.. this indicated a slight discount, of $ to $ a tonne, from the original chinese asking price of $ a tonne, a trader whose company represents beijing's food trading arm cofco, said.. a trader with a major south korean feed mill company said one of its suppliers could come up with another , tonnes of chinese corn.. that some of the south korean purchases have been for august and september delivery indicated china was in the middle of a major corn export programme that could total two million or more tonnes for the year, traders throughout the region said.. trade and industry sources have long said that corn stored in the northern port of dalian, where it is priced and loaded for export, tops two million tonnes.. china's corn harvest was a record million tonnes, official figures show.. in the same year, china imported , tonnes of corn, down . percent on , while it exported , tonnes, up . percent.. while traders in the far east said they were taken by surprise at the volumes of corn moving out of china, the impact on world corn prices was limited because some level of activity had been anticipated since last november.. traders began with figures of , tonnes of total chinese corn exports. as exports began to soar, traders and other experts started favouring levels closer to a million tonnes.. as one source said on tuesday. "we're revising our numbers every day. last week we said a million. this week it's two.". corn futures on the chicago board of trade (cbot) closed / to six cents per bushel higher in monday trade, with the march contract hitting a / month high, up six at $... an industry executive in singapore said the chinese sales had already been factored into the cbot price, while prices in tokyo and chicago were driven by less fundamental and more speculative activity. shanghai newsoom ( ) .