britain's serious fraud office said on thursday it had become involved in a probe into alleged irregularities at morgan grenfell asset management, the funds arm of deutsche bank's uk based investment bank.. a spokeswoman for the sfo said the office was in contact with british investment watchdog imro, which would share any relevant material with the office. the sfo investigates and prosecutes major financial crimes in the city of london.. imro's own probe into mgam has already led to the suspension of two fund managers and briefly saw trading halted in three mgam funds, which have around , small investors.. "we have been in contact with imro. imro are investigating and will share anything of relevance with us," the sfo spokeswoman told reuters.. trading in the three funds resumed on thursday after a million pound ($ million) bail out by parent company deutsche bank.. sources in both the british banking and fund management industries said the probe appeared to be focusing on links between suspended mgam fund manager peter young and a uk based broker, fiba nordic securities.. young was not immediately available for comment.. a spokesman for fiba nordic securities in london said the firm welcomed any investigation and denied any improper relationship with mgam.. fiba nordic securities has been a broker and valuer for funds managed by mgam.. british regulatory sources said the uk's securities and futures authority (sfa) had previously been examining the activities of fiba over another matter.. this had subsequently led to the investigation by imro into mgam which prompted young's suspension.. young, whose own assets were frozen as a result of a high court injunction late on wednesday, was suspended from mgam on monday. mgam announced on wednesday evening that a second manager, stewart armer, had also been suspended.. young had managed two of the three suspended funds.. mgam said armer was suspended on wednesday evening "following the discovery of a suspected breach of personal account dealing rules".. a source close to the investigation said armer's assets would not be frozen and he was not a central focus of the probe. armer was not available for comment.. but in frankfurt a spokesman for deutsche bank said neither young nor armer had committed an obvious breach of regulations. "but both were hovering on the brink of a grey area," spokesman detlev rahmsdorf told reuters.. according to sources close to the investigation, the probe is trying to determine whether the fund's investments in unquoted stocks were valued above their real worth.. british brokers said they had had few redemptions in the three morgan grenfell funds after trading in them resumed but the full extent of any exodus would only become apparent after a few weeks.. "we are not seeing any panic selling. redemption levels look modest at this stage," an mgam spokesman told reuters.. however, banking analysts in frankfurt said deutsche had to tighten up internal controls to prevent a repeat crisis at its uk fund management division.. "something like this can never be allowed to happen again. if deutsche really wants to be a global player in investment banking, then its control mechanisms must keep in step with its growth," said vereinsbank analyst natalia grasegger.. the fall out from the mgam investigation also spread to sweden, where young had invested substantially in unlisted stocks. stocks held in his portfolio fell amid concerns from swedish officials about the impact of the probe on the country's alternative stock market. ($=. pound).