a turbulent week for natwest markets ended on friday with a shake up of its global debt markets arm and the departure of three senior staff.. but the investment banking arm of british banking giant national westminster bank plc (natwest) stressed that there was no link with million pounds ($ million) in losses also reported this week.. these were built up over two years in interest rate options after systematic mispricings of the derivatives.. britain's serious fraud office said it was monitoring the options situation but was not investigating the losses, which the bank of england and the financial markets watchdog, the securities and futures authority, are scrutinising.. the management shake up in natwest's debt markets division marks a shift in power to managers from greenwich capital, the u.s. bond house it bought last year.. "the co chief executives of the new global debt markets division are gary holloway and chip kruger," a natwest spokeswoman told reuters. both joined natwest when it bought greenwich capital.. two casualties of the reshuffle were senior natwest managers, johan hattingh and alby cator. the firm has also had to cope with the departure of its european equity derivatives head roger nagioff to lehman brothers and reports that staff morale is low.. hattingh was european fixed income head and cator managing director of european primary markets. hattingh had been at natwest markets since when he joined from japan's ibj.. "their departures are as a result of the restructuring of the debt markets division," the spokeswoman said when asked if the two had been made redundant by natwest.. natwest said holloway would be based in greenwich in the united states and would be responsible for the u.s. and asian operations. kruger would be london based and responsible for european debt market operations.. greg bowes, who built up greenwich's london business before the natwest takeover, becomes head of government bonds, repos and futures and options.. other key appointments are frank canelas, who will head corporate bonds origination, sales, trading and research, bruce snider who becomes head of asset backed origination, structuring and trading and phil lotz, chief administrative officer for operations, it and finance.. the natwest spokeswoman said the shake up played to both natwest's and greenwich's strengths. the changes, which were announced internally on thursday, have created main areas of responsibility within the debt markets division.. a number of natwest managers kept key roles within the new framework. these included graham rendell in acquisition finance, housing finance and syndicated loans, and simon collins, who continues as head of debt structuring and structured finance.. gary mulgrew and gordon mckechnie jointly head project finance, structured trade finance, and leasing and asset finance. george trott and martin jaskel head debt origination for corporates and all financial institutions. neil coulbeck remains responsible for business management and portfolio administration.. natwest's embarrassing losses in its global debt derivatives division have led to the suspension of five senior employees, bonus cuts totalling eight million pounds for a handful of staff and chief executive martin owen cutting his own bonus.. one banking source described the $ million greenwich purchase as being "effectively a reverse takeover" aimed at imposing greenwich's bond expertise and experience over parts of natwest's existing team, which had been struggling to build up its business in some areas.. the source also said the discovery of the options losses, which were first revealed two weeks ago, had been a result of auditing changes made by greenwich managers.. on thursday natwest's owen told reuters that the interest rate options losses, which began in late , had surfaced as a result of "certain procedural changes".. at the time of the greenwich purchase, natwest's owen said it plugged a major gap in the group's investment banking strategy and would meet demand from clients for firms able to offer the broadest possible range of global fixed income products..