anheuser busch cos inc, which set records for sales, profit and beer volume in , said wednesday it continues to aim for a double digit percentage increase in its earnings per share in .. "our projection for this year is double digits...eps growth," w. randolph "randy" baker, chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview.. anheuser, which brews budweiser and michelob beer, earned $. a share from continuing operations in , up percent from $. in , both before extraordinary items. . for the fourth quarter, it earned $. a share, in line with analysts' expectations, compared with earnings from continuing operations, and excluding charges, of $. a share in the fourth quarter. the year ago fourth quarter results exclude $. million in costs for closing a tampa, fla., brewery and $. million in costs for wholesale inventory reductions.. "as we end and begin , we do so in a position of great competitive strength and we have set the stage for significant long term earnings growth for ," baker said. . gross sales for , before excise taxes, were a record $. billion in , up four percent from .. anheuser said it sold a record . million barrels of beer in , up . percent from . adjusting for an inventory reduction in , beer volume grew . percent.. the company also boosted its leading domestic market share in by . points to . percent.. "the volume growth remains very, very good," oppenheimer and co analyst roy burry said. "that's the problem.". with anheuser being the only u.s. major brewer to gain market share, competition has intensified, burry said. . in spite of the increased competition, baker said anheuser implemented about a three percent price increase, equal to $. to $. per six pack of beer, in much of the united states this month. this followed a similar price increase in seven states in september and october of .. he said it is too soon to tell if the price increases are holding. but preliminary reports indicate anheuser's major competitors are following the price move on their premium brands in a majority of markets, he added.. internationally, anheuser reaped a double digit increase in sales volume in , baker said, continuing a trend for this business.. international brewing profit dropped slightly in compared to , due in part to increased marketing expenses.. anheuser has been building its overseas beer business with ventures and investments in foreign brewers. in december, it increased its ownership in grupo modelo sa de cv to percent for an investment of about $ million.. the company said its busch entertainment theme park subsidiary made a significant contribution to earnings in , with its fifth consecutive year of record attendance and profitability.. ((reuters chicago newsdesk )).