quaker oats co. thursday reported a profit for the fourth quarter, reversing a year ago loss, but said its snapple beverage business was unprofitable and continued to be a disappointment.. quaker said snapple's u.s. and canadian sales dropped percent in , with volume down percent. sales of its six flavor diet snapple line, however, rose percent in .. chicago based quaker said it earned $. million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $. million, or cents a share, in the period. excluding a $. million pretax restructuring charge in the fourth quarter, quaker posted a year ago operating loss cents a share.. fourth quarter revenues were $. billion, down percent from $. billion a year earlier, which included $. million from divested businesses.. for the full year, quaker said it earned $ million, or $. a share, which included a $. million gain on divested business. in , it earned $ million, or $. per share, with a $. billion gain.. sales last year were $. billion, percent below the previous year's $. billion, which included $. million from divested businesses.. "this was a rebound year in which our largest, value driving businesses u.s. and canadian foods and worldwide gatorade increased their operating profits," chairman william smithburg said in a statement.. a $ million cutback in advertising and marketing costs in also helped results, analysts added.. in a conference call, smithburg said quaker was committed to at least percent real earnings growth in . "we're going to try like crazy to do even better than that," he said.. quaker management again pledged to turn around snapple, which it bought over two years ago for $. billion.. "we need to stabilise (snapple's) volume" in , smithburg said. "our goal is to operate snapple at cash positive in .". cash positive means snapple is expected to be profitable, excluding goodwill charges of about $ million a year.. quaker surprised some analysts by not taking a charge in the fourth quarter to reduce snapple's value. analysts had expected quaker to take a large writedown for snapple, potentially as high as $ billion.. smithburg declined to comment on speculation and rumours that quaker was looking to sell snapple, a fruit flavored and iced tea beverage business, and its gatorade sports drink.. he said quaker's management continues to review steps to "create value for shareholders," but declined to be specific.. gatorade, quaker's largest brand, had a strong year in , smithburg said, with sales volume rising percent in the fourth quarter and percent year to date.. gatorade is launching this year a "frost" line of gatorade beverages that will feature a "cooling taste," smithburg said. "the trade acceptance has been nothing short of terrific.". smithburg said the company's hot cereals business had a strong year, with sales volume up percent.. ready to eat cereals, such as cap'n crunch and life, gained percent in volume for . the value priced line of bagged cereals grew more than percent in the year.. quaker stock was down . cents at $. in afternoon trading..