from. craigv@rad.verbex.com. subject. ensoniq sq cross wave synthesizer for sale. originator. rob@snoopy.msc.cornell.edu. organization. cluttered but in order. lines. . . . ensoniq sq cross wave synthesizer.. i have an sq for sale. the sq is a powerful performance. oriented synth with a limited on board sequencer. i bought it because. it has a very large timbral repertoire; it seems to do meaty analog. synth sounds as well as sounds that are considerably more "digital".. below are a list of features extracted from the owner's manual.. o eight voice polyphonic poly timbral synthesizer, capable of. playing eight different sounds at once, with dynamic stereo. panning for each voice. o voice section employing cross wave synthesis; combine different. attack and sustain wave segments to create complex, dynamic sounds. o sampled waves (includes a drumset) serve as the sound source. o dynamic voice allocation. each sequencer track/midi channel has. access to all eight voices. o a full featured midi controller keyboard capable of sending eight. midi program and volume changes at once. keyboard is velocity. sensitive, and transmits/receives velocity and polyphonic aftertouch.. o powerful matrix modulation scheme allows a very wide range of . modulation sources and routings.. o a ." floppy disk drive which writes/reads ordinary ds/dd disks. allows fast and reliable storage of up to sequences and up to. sound patches on a single floppy disk. also has a ram cart slot. for patches that is compatible with esq ram carts.. o does sysex dumps to its floppy disk for any sysex capable midi device. o character fluorescent display and user friendly "page driven". programming scheme provides a fairly humane user interface. o stereo line outs, and stereo headphone jack for private listening. o sound programs and sequences are upwardly compatible with the esq . so that sounds and sequences created for the esq can be played on. the sq .. . this sq has been the main midi controller in my studio for quite a while. now. it has performed ably in that role, and has also been a heavily. used sound source at the same time. the sq seems to have been designed. with this role in mind, and it works very well with my software sequencer. (wincake) in its multitimbral mode.. . >from a synthesis point of view, this machine is a hybrid. it uses looped. short samples (there are of them) as sources, then these waves. are processed with a sophisticated dcf dca arrangement. the sq . is capable of great things because of its pole analog lowpass filter.. simply put, it makes fabulous analog synth sounds. but unlike most. good analog synths, it has a very thorough midi implementation so that it. works very well with a midi sequencer. what i really like most about this. thing is that it is capable of making a very wide range of sounds.. this sq is about years old (mfg. date //). it does have. an track sequencer, but like most on board sequencers, it is a pain. to use so i have avoided it.. . reason for sale.. i am selling my sq because i recently joined forces with another individual. here in boston, and we have more keyboards than space to put them. i. recommend it for someone who is getting started in sequencing and needs a. powerful but economical master keyboard.. . pricing and terms.. i paid $. for this synth a few years ago. i am willing to accept. $. (average r.m.m.s asking price is $.). i will include a bunch of . patches on sq floppy disks for the buyer of this synth, as well as the . original ensoniq sq owner's manual.. . price. asking $. (everything). shipping. split shipping (ups surface cod) anywhere in the lower states. . craig vanderborgh verbex voice systems. e mail. craigv@rad.verbex.com russell street. phone. () littleton, ma . . . .