exports of ivorian cocoa totalled , tonnes in january taking the / season's cumulative total to , tonnes since october , port sources said on tuesday.. "warehouses are still full," said one port source.. latest figures on arrivals of cocoa at ports were not immediately available but are widely expected to total , tonnes since october . the figures, for abidjan and san pedro ports, were expected to be clearer this week.. total dedicated warehouse space is put by sources at close to , tonnes, meaning stocks of around the same amount.. quality inspectors said bean humidity levels were around . . percent with grain sizes of beans per grammes.. export standards allow a maximum of eight percent humidity and beans per grammes.. shipping line managers said break bulk (loose beans in holds) shipment of cocoa was proving more popular with clients than shipment in containers.. "there is a lot of demand for mega bulk," said one shipping line manager, referring to the trade name for loose bulk, increasingly favoured by amsterdam based cocoa processors.. higher than expected arrivals of cocoa, coupled with low overseas demand and world prices, and difficulty in obtaining export contracts led to the build up of stocks in january.. forwarders expect large shipments to leave against march delivery. some exporters have held on to stock in the hope of rising prices. prices last week hit month lows.. arrivals figures are expected this week to indicate whether volumes reaching ports will tail off ahead of the april sept mid crop.. exporters expect a total crop of around a million tonnes but private forecasters have said a good mid crop could take total volumes closer to . million tonnes still short of last season's record . million tonnes.. a firmer idea of mid crop prospects is expected later this month as flower survival rates and pod setting patterns emerge.. official port statistics for january will not be available until february. official cumulative exports for the first three months of the / (oct sept) season were shown as only , tonnes compared with , tonnes in the same period of /.. abidjan newsroom + .