port arrivals of / (oct sept) ivorian coffee totalled about , tonnes by march compared to about , tonnes in / despite doubts over quality, exporters said.. "it is a larger crop than last year," said one industry buyer. "the figures tie in with forecasts of upwards of , tonnes but as with last year marketing has been left a little later because of a large cocoa crop.". ivory coast produced around , tonnes of mainly robusta coffee in / and has slated , tonnes for /.. a mild january march flowering period in early and a peak in the strong moderate weak production cycle had helped boost the / harvest, crop analysts said.. exporters said , tonnes had been taken to abidjan and , to ivory coast's second port, san pedro, since the season opened in mid november.. port sources put coffee exports to mid march at little over , tonnes as sorting and grading had slowed port throughput, leaving warehouse stocks of around , tonnes.. "trade is still talking about , tonnes to , tonnes but even , tonnes is big for ivory coast," said one. "exports are still low so stocks have built up.". large volumes of cocoa had reduced available warehouse space from december until a wave of shipments against march contracts, exporters said in february.. coffee marketing usually picks up from janaury as cocoa arrivals fall.. one port source said quality problems meant that not more than , tonnes would be exported in /, but others disagreed.. "there is now a lot of buying of all grades but the coffee is taking a long time to prepare for export," he added.. yields per hectare had risen this year with one plantation manager citing kilos per hectare compared to last year but grading was taking much longer.. exporters who fund upcountry purchases to meet export contracts (oct sept year) said careless harvesting and poor sorting continued to be a problem.. markets were now being found for lower grades after a world price rally followed a slump in late , exporters said.. "everything will find a way out so nothing will be wasted. some will be sent out to eastern europe or other such markets," said one. "there are possiblities for black beans (sub grade) but you never know what arrangement people have been able to make.". crop analysts recently touring upcountry farms said village farmers' wives were still busy winnowing large volumes of coffee initially rejected by upcountry buyers.. farm union officials said coffee had had been badly stored after rains hampered drying in december. some cooperatives were still short of sacks for sending coffee to ports, one said.. matthew bunce, abidjan newsroom + .