port arrivals of / (oct sept) ivorian coffee totalled about , tonnes by march compared to about , tonnes in / but more remains upcountry, exporters said.. "my figures show , tonnes by march (since mid november)," said one port source. "arrivals dropped off over the past week but there is still plenty upcountry. we have had perhaps three quarters of the crop.". another exporter put arrivals at closer to , tonnes by april although the rate of deliveries had slowed.. exporters and crop analysts expect the / crop to at least equal ivory coast's official forecast of , tonnes, against , tonnes produced in / when coffee arrivals tailed off sharply in late march.. port sources said exports by april reached , tonnes, similar to the same period in the / year in which , tonnes were exported.. buying had been dominated by coffee exporters jag, sifca and shac with local processor nestle expected by industry to roast , tonnes at its abidjan processing unit.. "there's a lot of coffee coming in but as exports are still slow stocks are building," said one forwarder.. coffee marketing and exports got off to a later start this year after the season was opened about six weeks late. banks refused to finance early buying operations because of low world prices before a rally in early .. coffee quality has since been dogged by black beans resulting from farmers harvesting unripe green cherries in a rush to sell.. farmers and unions said derisory farmgate prices were being paid by buyers, in some areas cfa per kilo below the official cfa guideline miniumum price.. "price adjustments mean two tonnes are cut out for every tonnes delivered," said one synagci farm union leader. "fifty percent of the crop was sold by farmers for between and cfa a kilo," he added.. "most have been paid between to cfa," said an industry buyer.. one port quality inspector said no more than , tonnes of coffee might be exported in / but exporters dismissed the prediction.. prices paid for coffee on ivory coast's export contract allocation auction system were largely in line with european market rates, they said, and problems of overbidding for cocoa contracts had not been repeated in the coffee sector, exporters said.. export markets were being found although ivory coast has said it would no longer market black beans, industry sources said.. the caistab marketing board recently condidered issuing a second marketing price structure to cover large volumes of low grade / beans but had shelved the idea.. "what i hear from people in the caistab is nothing will be done (on prices) for now but maybe they will have to consider it," said one large buyer. "the market is very changeable. one day you can sell anything, the next it is all sitting in the warehouse.". ivory coast agreed in february to limit january to june exports by around , tonnes after an association of coffee producing countries meeting in december aimed at pushing up world prices.. "it would all be shipped in june anyway, if anything is done at all," said one exporter. "people can just go and buy from vietnam and others not in the (acpc) agreement.". matthew bunce, abidjan newsroom, + .