ivory coast's power capacity is set to increase by one third but with domestic demand slim export customers will be needed, power engineering firms and distributors said on wednesday.. "they have about , megawatts (mw) installed but there are no large industrial users," a west africa based manager for swedish power group asea brown boveri (abb) told reuters. "one of the top power consumers is a hotel.". the head of ivory coast's privatised power firm compagnie d'electricite ivoirienne (cie) agreed, and expected exports.. "the (domestic) problem is not so much one of construction. the techniques of construction are not a problem. it's the capacity to absorb the investment, to repay. there must be a market," cie president marcel zadi kessy said earlier this year.. abb and five other bidders submitted proposals in april to build a $ million, mw, gas fired power plant near the capital abidjan on build own transfer terms.. the plant, at azito, would start operating within months with an initial capacity of mw, which could be upgraded.. the supplier will be chosen on the basis of competitive bids based on kilowatt/hour charge, with the winner is due to be declared in may.. plant ownership would pass to ivory coast after years.. "industrial companies would give us some baseload and make us less reliant on (an economy largely dependent on) cocoa and coffee prices," said abb sub regional manager koen beckers in a recent interview.. ivory coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, is keen to diversify export earnings away from its rural economy.. power companies see promising markets in mining and food processing sectors, although domestic consumption is also set to rise, with a plan to supply , more villages over the next few years.. in the years since independence from france only about , villages have been connected.. "cie (compagnie d'electricite ivoirienne) has already invested quite a lot in improving grid quality," said beckers.. a nickel mine producing , tonnes a year is planned to open around the year at biankouma in western ivory coast, which could raise industrial energy consumption by a further mw, he said.. about companies, including many newcomers, are exploring mainly for gold in permits, each of up to , square kilometres.. ivory coast aims to triple cocoa bean processing capacity from about , tonnes to allow domestic processing of percent of its long term average yearly cocoa crop.. three factories are working and a further five are under discussion.. power exports began with ghana after ivory coast achieved energy self sufficiency in .. "now they (ivorians) are discussing interconnecting mali," meaning ivory coast would be connected to five other countries, said beckers.. power deals now link ivory coast, ghana, togo, benin and burkina faso.. ivory coast also exports natural gas after using percent of offshore output to feed its own thermal power stations, recently converted from other fuels.. ivorian mines and energy minister lamine fadika in april urged ghana to fuel a new mw power station at takoradi, due on line this year with new ivorian offshore gas under development by shell and umic, a unit of houston based united meridian corp.. ivory coast's six hydroelectric plants can produce mw and the vridi thermal plant near abidjan can produce mw plus.. another mw came on stream in april from ciprel plant, a joint venture between french firms bouygues and electricite de france.. a planned regional west african energy community would "allow countries with excess... gas or electricity, to fulfill the needs of neighbouring countries," said fadika at a march conference in accra on "meeting africa's oil and gas needs".. abidjan newsroom, + .