ivory coast's second port of san pedro is gearing up to play an increasingly important role in the key cocoa and coffee sector both as a shipper and as a processor of the beans.. three large new warehouses are under construction and the first of two planned cocoa processing factories is nearing the tendering stage.. "a factory site has been chosen and construction is about to go out to tender," said a spokesman for abidjan based ivorian exporter eraf.. "when a bidder has been selected ground levelling starts and work will be around the clock to open in march ," export manager claude caissagnon told reuters.. eraf has announced plans for a , tonnes a year bean processing plant in san pedro with paris based partner, orebi and dutch firm nederland.. plans for a second factory by ivorian group solegi are less clear but san pedro exporters told reuters they expect it to go ahead.. ivory coast aims to process percent of its annual cocoa crop by the year to boost export value.. industry sources point to attractive tax incentives behind a spate of industrial development in and around san pedro including cocoa and coffee industries and timber sawmills.. three private factories can already process up to , tonnes of cocoa beans a year but after a record / harvest of . million tonnes exporters doubt the percent target date will be met.. caissagnon said eraf's planned factory producing only cocoa butter and cake could expand capacity to , tonnes/year. existing ivorian factories also produce powder and cocoa mass by grinding beans.. san pedro's importance has grown with rising southwestern cocoa output since .. a loosening of commodity marketing by the state caistab cocoa board has also meant buyers' transport costs are lower than to the main eastern, port of abidjan.. port arrivals of cocoa for the / season are already close to end april / levels of around one million tonnes as young, hybrid plants in the area around san pedro have swollen local output.. ivory coast wants to limit long term annual production to around one million tonnes and has said it will destroy illegal farms in classified forests.. three warehouses under construction are due to be ready by the / season (oct sept). construction managers said the warehouses would be owned by omais, a lebanese coffee and cocoa buyer and exporters paci and shac.. an accute shortage of warehouse space in / meant trucks of cocoa were left stranded at port approach roads.. ivorian forwarder sivom was also expanding warehouse space and extra space could result from laws limiting exports of tropical timber, he added.. national bean processing capacity is set to increase to , tonnes later this year with the addition of capacity to abidjan based unicao part owned by u.s. based archer daniel midland (adm).. up to four other factory proposals, apart from eraf's, could raise capacity to well over , tonnes over the next few years.. saco, ivory coast's largest cocoa processor, owned by europe's callebaut barry group, has two factories with a total capacity of around , tonnes. its second plant at the northern entrance to san pedro opened in the / season.. "eraf's site is on the opposite side of the road from saco with access routes possible from sassandra and soubre directions," said caissagnon..