heavy april rains in ivorian cocoa areas have favoured mid crop (may sept) pod growth and flowering for early / main crop (oct april) harvests, weather and crop analyts said on thursday.. "at the end of march we were at percent of the year average (jan mar) in all but a few areas," said one crop analyst. "i would say april has been about average but the last days will give the overall picture.". national weather centre forecasters said coastal and inland areas, particularly around yamoussoukro and gagnoa, had received well above average levels in the first days of april. "if rains are heavy for the last days of april you can say the (long) rainy season has begun (usually lasting until august).". many crop analysts use private data from undisclosed areas but official weather data for the first days of april showed rains at weather stations averaged . mm. a total of mm fell in the first days of april and . in the second.. one crop analyst put overall rainfall at just below average. another said rains had risen to mm against his year average figure of mm for stations. rains in some areas had been between percent above normal.. "march and april have been good and recent rains also seem quite heavy," said one. "april could be close to its average.". march rains averaged mm, against crop analysts' long term averages ranging from mm. february rains of mm (against a usual mm average) had threatened mid crop potential until rain fell later, crop analysts said.. young flowers for / main crop harvests where more abundant than at the same time last year but accurate predictions of harvests would not be possible until june onwards, analysts said.. crop analysts' estimates of the / midcrop range between , tonnes and , tonnes but rains into may will partly determine harvests. arrivals stood at , tonnes by mid april.. "mid crop assessments are particularly difficult. you need to visit four times as many sites for an accurate indication because of the smaller number of pods involved," one explained.. mid crop arrivals, with smaller bean sizes than last year's export grade harvests (up to beans/ grammes), are expected from early may against mid april last year.. one set of official weather data show rainfall averages for the first three months of were ., . and mm respectively against ., . and . in the record . million tonnes / season.. the long term averages for the same three months ( ) were ., ., .. for april, the average was ... the latest april data, from ivory coast's national weather station, showed the following rainfall (mm) for the first days of april in key growing areas plus the commercial capital abidjan (previous days bracketed).. daloa . (.), gagnoa (.), san pedro (.), tabou . (.) man . (.), dimbokro . (.), yamoussoukro . (.), abidjan (.), sassandra (.), adiake . (.), korhogo . (.).. for the second days of april, the rains were.. daloa ., gagnoa ., san pedro ., tabou ., man ., dimbokro ., yamoussoukro ., abidjan ., sassandra ., adiake ., korogho ... matthew bunce, abidjan newsroom + .