cocoa bean exports from ivory coast jumped to , tonnes in march, against , in february and , in march , official shipping data show.. march exports and bean quality were similar to last year's levels even though the / crop is expected by pod counters to fall short of last year's . million tonne record, exporters said.. "last year there was a demand peak earlier in the year but this year demand came later," said one shipper. "march () has been one of the biggest shipment months ever so we are looking hard at the (export) figures.". abidjan handled , tonnes of march exports with a further , tonnes leaving via the second port of san pedro.. cumulative exports for the first six months of / (oct sept) totalled , tonnes, against , by the end of march in /.. "the average bean count so far has been (beans per grams) so quality has been very good," said the exporter, adding that bean sizes last week averaged / grams.. ivory coast's bean export standard is beans per grams with less than eight percent humidity.. some upcountry buyers have pointed to slipping bean sizes ahead of the mid crop (may sept).. the main destinations for march exports from abidjan were broadly the same as last year. north west european ports received , tonnes, with , for amsterdam. u.s. east coast ports took ,, including , for new york.. separate figures by destination for san pedro were not immediately available.. shipments from the two ports during the main january and march cocoa contract months totalled , tonnes and , tonnes, against , and , last year.. some shipments loaded in late february had probably been recorded as march exports, said one shipper.. "the (export) figure is very high for one month but bulk shipments might have put the volume up," he added.. ivory coast produced a crop of . million tonnes in / and private forecasts for / range up to at least . million tonnes.. port arrivals stood at around , tonnes by mid april as the main crop (oct april) tailed off, compared with . million tonnes in /, industry sources said this week.. analysts have made preliminary harvest estimates of up to , tonnes for the mid crop (may sept), but steady rains needed into june will partly determine final volumes.. ivory coast has not revised its / total crop forecast of , tonnes, but u.k. based broker gni cut on wednesday set its full year / ivory coast cocoa crop estimate at . million tonnes.. gni sharply cut its estimate of this year's world cocoa supply deficit from , tonnes to ,.. matthew bunce, abidjan newsroom + .