ivorian coffee exporters are busy grading a large crop and will pay little attention to next week's meeting of association of coffee producing countries, when world export plans will be reviewed, exporters said.. "forget it. it means nothing," said one on tuesday. "the (current retention) quantity is not shocking and we do not expect anything new but it might hit sentiment.". green robusta coffee arrivals at ivorian ports totalled around , tonnes by may in the / (oct sept) season against just over , by the same time last year, they said.. african producers agreed in january to cut robusta exports (jan june) from . million ( kg) bags to . million under an acpc export plan but the amount to be retained by each country was unclear.. ivory coast agreed to subtract , tonnes from its share of a previously agreed african quota totalling . million bags (jan june). its share of the existing quota was not published.. ivorian coffee exports and local industry offtake since the start of the season were about , , tonnes to date, leaving export warehouse stocks of just over that amount.. "those stocks have nothing to do with the (acpc) plan, said one. "that (stock) takes into account nestle (ivory coast's main roaster) buying , tonnes for this year," said one source. "jean abile gal (a smaller roaster) has also bought , to , for blending with imported arabica.". ivorian exporters expect a steady flow of shipments up to the end of the season despite roller coaster world prices which this week hit a year high of $, tonne basis july.. robusta prices have risen percent since january after late lows which prompted african countries to press the acpc for an export limit plan to propel flagging robusta prices closer to higher arabicas, which have doubled since january. analysts have said the rises were more due to production fundamentals and uncertainty stemming from just in time inventory policies adopted by roasters, rather than export retention.. ivorian coffee exporters say the (jan june) acpc plan was irrelevant for ivory coast given that coffee grading capacity only allows about , tonnes to be processed a week. that meant stocks would have built up without the plan with little chance of exceeding quotas.. stocks might be carried into / depending on late season world prices, they added. however, shipments could pick up in july. u.s. analysts cited a robusta coffee supply squeeze ahead of end season shipments for a robusta price spike basis july.. "it depends on the exporters' books," said one forwarder.. if the price trend continued, warehouses would empty out despite rising exports from non acpc asian producers, said another. "ivory coast usually exports between , to , tonnes a year. if late season prices are good all the coffee might leave," he said.. arrivals totalled about , tonnes last week, said one exporter. quantities remaining upcountry were not clear but villagers were still holding stocks back for better prices from buyers, he added.. "when prices are low up to , tonnes of coffee can be carried over between seasons. not of all of this year's crop will necessarily be exported," he added.. ivory coast has produced a better than expected / crop, seen reaching anything up to , tonnes by the season's end against , last year. it has forecast , tonnes for this year but arrivals totalled that amount by the end of april with five months of the season remaining.. abidjan newsroom + .