ivory coast's cocoa mid crop (may sept) could match harvest forecasts of over , tonnes but bean sizes are seen down from the record / season (oct sept), crop analysts and exporters said on thursday.. "the development seems to be coming along quite nicely," said one. "it is still early but i see no reason to suspect the mid crop will be poor.". good peak wet season rains in june would decide the final mid crop tally but this year's bean sizes are not expected to match the mainly exportable grades ( beans per grammes) seen in the record . million tonnes (total crop) / year.. "last year's mid crop (, tonnes) was exceptional. i think the sizes will return to more normal levels," said another crop analyst, pointing to a range of range with lowest grades possibly touching .. ivory coast's main crop reached around one million tonnes by the season's closing date of april . crop analysts expect the mid crop to be down on / with some early forecasts in a , tonnes range.. crop analysts said said plantation soil moiture levels had dropped in some areas after heavy wet season rains in april eased off in the first ten days of may.. "there was less moisture than i thought there would be, but it is not a problem," said one.. bean sizes would swell if june rains were sufficient.. "i do not have a pessimistic view of mid crop," said the analyst. "as far as i am concerned soil humidity is average but our teams have not yet completed their tour.". crop analysts returning from upcountry farm inspections reported little harvesting and drying of cocoa. they did not expect mid crop arrivals at port to strenghten until june after a lull in activity between the main and mid crops.. "what is there will sit around for mixing in with better beans and larger quantities. it is just not worth the farmers selling yet," said one.. exporters say late main crop and a trickle of mid crop beans arriving at ports are in a range.. "last year, even the tail of the mid crop met export standards," said one. special contracts for grades outside the official export standard would still be exported.. "discounts will be applied, as for poor coffee beans, but it will all be exported," he added.. ivory coast aims to process percent of its annual cocoa crop by the year ,, partly to remove poorer grades from export markets, but also to push up world prices while adding export value.. local processors, with three factories, have a total bean processing capacity of around , tonnes.. that figure could rise to at least , tonnes in / as local factories build extensions and possible oil palm factory capacity for cocoa bean processing comes on line.. other factories already under construction or in final planning stages could take ivorian bean processing capacity to over , tonnes by / (corrects from /) without taking into account a raft of plans in early discussion stages.. abidjan newsroom, + .