a hong kong member of the chinese committee handling the territory's return handed a letter to chinese foreign minister qian qichen on friday protesting against beijing's plan to dilute civil liberties laws.. frederick fung, chairman of the hong kong association for democracy and people's livelihood, handed the letter to qian just before the start of a two day session of the member preparatory committee in beijing's great hall of the people.. "i gave a document to him in the hope he will study it," fung told reporters. "i have a different view on the preparatory committee proposal to repeal several provisions of the bill of rights.". beijing's plans to repeal or amend a list of hong kong laws and ordinances, including parts of its bill of rights, will be debated at the session of the caucus responsible for shaping hong kong's future in the countdown to the handover this year.. the announcement this month from beijing, which said the laws contradicted hong kong's future mini constitution the basic law, has sparked outrage in the british colony and forceful objections from london and its allies.. "i feel if it doesn't violate the basic law it should not be retracted," fung told reporters.. "if the preparatory committee abolishes the provisions of the bill of rights it will create unnecessary worries and be detrimental to hong kong's prosperity and stability after ," fung said in his letter, a copy of which was seen by reuters.. qian defended the move, accusing western media of distorting the nature of the proposed changes and saying only those provisions that contradicted laws dealing with international affairs or national defence would be removed.. "hong kong's bill of rights...will be preserved and only those provisions that override other laws will be deleted," state television quoted qian as saying.. "the western media in recent days has made it sound like we have suddenly proposed changing a large number of laws or even that we would move the mainland's laws to hong kong," he said.. "our overall guiding principle is to reflect the basic law's regulation of changing as little as possible the original laws of hong kong," he said.. fung's protest followed an attack on thursday by hong kong governor chris patten who lashed out at what he called china's repugnant proposal to dilute hong kong's civil liberties after it recovers the british colony at midnight on june .. "i believe the abolition of the... bill (of rights) will bring instability to the rule of law in the future special region," said the letter by fung, who is also a member of the territory's beijing appointed provisional legislature.. fung voiced opposition to china's decision to repeal recent hong kong regulations allowing political parties, warning that beijing's decision to return to the british colonial era system would affect hong kong's stability as well as its credibility.. "i believe that to restore these provisions is totally against developing toward the casting off of colonialism and against the principle of hong kong people governing hong kong," he said in the letter. fung's group advocates democracy for hong kong through cooperation not confrontation with beijing.. hong kong's post colonial leader tung chee hwa, who is attending the crucial committee meeting in beijing, argued in defence of beijing's move that the international community had misconstrued the situation.. u.s. president bill clinton has expressed concern. britain summoned the chinese ambassador in london order to lodge a protest and foreign minister malcolm rifkind plans to pursue the issue in a meeting with qian next month..