shares in british mobile telephone operator orange plc, languishing below their flotation price, rose on monday after the company said it had more than doubled its total subscriber base to over , customers during .. orange, priced at p when floated months ago, added p to p after the company said it had added , customers in the last three months of , its best ever quarter.. the positive trend in the british cellular market was confirmed by subscriber figures issued later on monday by one one, a joint venture between cable &amp; wireless plc and a unit of us west media group.. one one, the smallest uk operator, said the christmas period was its best ever quarter, gaining , customers to take its total to , an eight percent market share.. "the final quarter has generally been quite good for mobile phone companies and the trend is positive after four disappointing quarters," said analyst james ross of broker abn amro hoare govett.. vodafone group, the market leader in britain, last week reported a percent annual increase in subscriber numbers to some . million at end december.. cellnet, percent owned by british telecommunications, ended last year with . million uk customers, up from . million at the end of .. analysts said that orange shares had good upside potential after a rollercoaster ride in their short time on the market. they rose to p shortly after a heavily oversubscribed flotation only to dip below p after the initial glow faded for a company not expected to make a profit until .. james dodd of kleinwort benson said he regarded a level of p as fair value for shares in orange, in which hong kong based hutchison whampoa ltd and british aerospace remain the leading stakeholders.. dodd noted that bt's plans to raise the price of calls to orange and one one handsets would be beneficial. the new rates, to take effect next month, could boost revenues by percent per subscriber.. orange said it now had an . percent share of the total uk market, against seven percent at the end of . it said its "churn" or disconnection rate of . percent in was around a third below the industry average.. "we stay right on our plan for growth of subscribers, market share, usage, network coverage and churn," said managing director hans snook.. "we look forward in to continuing to move ahead and to extending our international service through new roaming agreements and the introduction of dual band handsets.". the new handsets, to be launched in the first half of , should extend potential coverage to most european countries..