shares in pearson plc gained on wednesday as new chief executive marjorie scardino officially took the reins at the diversified british media and leisure company.. scardino, who becomes the first woman to head one of britain's leading companies, has already said that pearson's profit performance has been inadequate and disposals are expected as she aims for greater focus on core businesses.. pearson shares added .p to .p on wednesday, reflecting hopes that she will shake up what critics regard as a slumbering giant.. scardino, a year old texan, had been chief executive of the economist group, a magazine company half owned by pearson. a pearson spokeswoman said scardino spent her first day "meeting the troops" at the company's central london headquarters.. she has already met her fellow executives and share analysts are hoping for some swift action to focus a company which is accused by critics of underexploiting a stellar group of assets.. its businesses range from the financial times newspaper to penguin books and a television production arm which makes low budget programmes such as australian soap "neighbours".. analysts identify pearson's investment banking interests, its theme park businesses and loss making u.s. software publishing company mindscape as the obvious candidates for sale.. pearson's tussauds group unit includes london's landmark madame tussaud's waxwork exhibition and theme parks such as alton towers in england and spain's port aventura.. pearson also has a percent stake in london investment bank lazard brothers and smaller holdings in lazard freres in paris and new york.. analyst jason crisp of socgen said he thought that scardino would make quite rapid decisions on which businesses to keep and which to sell. but he added that any disposals would necessarily take time to complete.. crisp said that socgen remained positive about pearson.. "it's not a storming buy but with a good team in place, i think the share price will tend to improve," he said.. pearson effectively has a new management team following changes to the board last year.. the process will be complete when dennis stevenson replaces michael blakenham as chairman in may. stevenson is currently deputy chairman.. analyst colin tennant of ubs shared the view that investment banking, theme parks and mindscape could be jettisoned.. but he said that the new management might find it difficult to drive the share price forward while selling off businesses.. "they have stressed they want focus but the problem is there is the possibility of earnings dilution on disposals," he said.. tennant added that he thought pearson shares "pretty fully valued" at current levels..