international music and film group polygram on wednesday reported an almost percent fall in earnings after taking dramatic action to respond to a slowdown in record sales.. polygram's net income after tax and extraordinary items dropped to million guilders ($. million) from million guilders in . the company held its dividend at . guilders per share. the results topped market forecasts and polygram shares surged . guilders to . on the amsterdam stock exchange on wednesday morning.. polygram took a post tax charge of million guilders as it reorganised its music operations, cutting some jobs.. that move came as the music industry stalled after a decade of rapid growth. global music sales had risen to $ billion dollars in from $ billion in but the rate of growth slowed to an estimated three percent last year.. "this will be a challenging year for polygram's music division, particularly in the u.s. where market instability is likely to persist for the next six to months," polygram president and ceo alain levy said.. "nevertheless, we remain optimistic that our continued success in breaking new talent and the measures we have taken to adapt to changing markets around the world will create the right conditions for long term growth," he added.. levy told reuters that polygram, which boasts artists such as u, van morrison, elton john and the cranberries, should see some swift benefits from its restructuring.. he said there should be some positive effects this year but added. "that is not essential. what is essential is to be adapted (to market conditions)".. polygram is restructuring the operations of its motown unit, moving the label's headquarters from los angeles to new york as it seeks to recreate its heyday of the s and early s.. it is also reorganising its european music distribution and marketing operations and restructuring its classical music division.. polygram's music division increased its sales by five percent to . billion guilders but operating profit dipped slightly to . billion guilders as margins were squeezed.. polygram's infant film division moved into profit in the second half of last year thanks to the success of films such as sleepers, mr holland's opus and dead man walking. the division has secured oscar nominations this year.. levy said that the film business had done "extremely well" in its four years of operation but was now entering a crucial phase as it moved into bigger budget movies.. polygram is listed in amsterdam and new york, with many of its senior executives based in london. dutch giant philips electronics nv owns a percent stake in the firm. ($=. guilder).