britain's yorkshire tyne tees television holdings plc, a likely bid target for rival broadcasters, said on tuesday it believed any offer would have to be at a hefty premium to its current share price.. ytt chairman and chief executive ward thomas told a news conference that he believed a bid from northern neighbour granada group plc was "extremely likely".. granada has built up a stake of percent in ytt, the itv commercial television broadcaster to northern cities such as leeds and newcastle, and has long been expected to mount a bid.. that speculation has pushed ytt shares up by some percent over the past months to their current level of around . pounds ($.), giving the company a value of around million pounds, including warrants.. but thomas suggested any realistic bid would have to be pitched at around pounds per share.. "i say pounds to gerry (granada chairman gerry robinson)," thomas told reuters in a telephone interview.. "it's a conversational gambit," he added.. united news &amp; media plc, which already operates itv franchises for southern and eastern england, is another potential predator, with a stake of some percent in ytt.. thomas was speaking after ytt announced a percent rise in pre tax profit to . million pounds. it paid a total dividend for the year of pence per share, against in .. ytt shares were down / pence at . pounds at gmt.. thomas said that ytt's profitability could be greatly enhanced if it succeeded in its campaign to have its annual licence fee reduced from an annual million pounds and improved its share of itv advertising income.. ytt is urging a return to a special duty on advertising, which was originally introduced in but later scrapped.. thomas argued that the duty should be applied to all broadcasters including pay television operator bskyb and the channel four commercial station, both currently outside the licence fee system.. thomas called ytt's share of itv advertising revenue disappointing after it fell to . percent of itv income.. it is in talks with laser, its advertising sales agency, to market the whole of northern england as a single region. the fact that laser is owned by granada, the itv broadcaster in north west england, could facilitate this move. ($=. pound).