british newspaper publisher mirror group plc said on thursday its profit rose six percent to a record level and that it was ploughing savings from lower newsprint costs back into its titles.. "we are trying to enhance our papers rather than cutting the cover price," chief executive david montgomery said in a telephone interview.. "all the main newspaper groups are heavily subsidising cover prices in one way or another at the moment...we do not think this is the way to build a business," he added.. a newspaper price war has been fought in britain since , rupert murdoch's news international newspapers leading the way with price cuts and special promotions.. montgomery said that the price of newsprint the material on which newspapers are printed had fallen some percent from highs. the mirror's newsprint bill last year came to more than million pounds ($ million).. the group's flagship mirror newspaper is britain's second top selling tabloid, behind news international's sun.. mirror's pre tax profit rose . percent to . million pounds, before exceptional items. total dividend was increased by . percent to .p per share.. mirror group shares came off .p to p by gmt in a generally lower london market.. "the group is in a good financial position to make prudent investments for the future and to continue its strategy of creating a more broadly based media group," the company said.. mirror group has interests in cable television and a stake of around percent in scottish television plc, the commercial terrestrial (itv) broadcaster to central scotland.. losses from the developing live tv cable channel fell from million to around eight million pounds in .. mirror group has a percent stake in newspaper publishing, the company which produces the independent and independent on sunday broadsheets and montogomery said there were no plans to dispose of this.. the two newspapers reported circulation rises in february, the first signs that they may be pulling out of a sales slump.. newspaper publishing operating losses were percent lower last year and montgomery said that cost savings from combined operations meant the impact was "negligible" to mirror group.. the group said it had an exceptional gain of . million pounds in , generated by the resolution of a number of property related issues and the sale of stv's stake in fellow regional broadcaster htv.. an exceptional tax credit of . million pounds was included in the accounts after a settlement was reached with the inland revenue on corporation tax payable for . profit after tax increased to . million pounds, from . million pounds in . ($=. pound).