british national newspaper publisher mirror group plc posted a small profit increase on wednesday in the face of a large jump in newsprint costs.. pre tax profit before exceptional items in the first six months of the year rose by . percent to . million pounds ($. million).. interim dividend was increased to .p from .p.. initial market reaction was positive, mirror shares adding seven to .p by gmt.. "mirror group has outperformed other newspaper companies in absorbing a percent increase in newsprint costs, maintaining high levels of marketing investment in the brands and still producing an increase in profits," chief executive david montgomery said in a statement.. "the quality of these results confirms mirror group as an efficiently run media business now capable of further expansion by deploying its core skills," montgomery added.. mirror group's flagship title is the tabloid daily mirror, britain's second top selling newspaper. it also has a major stake in the independent broadsheet and has recently branched out into cable television.. the costs of newsprint the material on which newspapers are printed rose by million pounds year on year but mirror said it had largely managed to off set this through higher advertising and circulation revenues.. finance director john allwood said that cover price rises had helped to boost circulation revenue by million pounds while advertising revenue was up by around five million.. with newsprint price now levelling off, allwood said that the company would now seek to win new readers with special supplements to its core titles.. the mirror's television arm had losses of . million pounds, stemming from start up costs at its live tv local cable service.. live tv's offbeat style, including programmes such as topless darts, has earned it hefty criticism but allwood said this was undeserved.. "it is now receivable in . million homes and i think people should stop knocking us and give us a bit more credit," he said, adding main brand companies advertised on live.. the channel is currently available in central london and birmingham but launches are planned in the cities of liverpool and edinburgh by the end of the year.. ($=. pound).