swiss pharmaceutical company roche holding ag agreed on wednesday to acquire tastemaker, an international manufacturer of food flavorings, from two u.s. chemical companies in a deal worth about $. billion.. st. louis based mallinckrodt inc., which also makes drugs and other medical products, and hercules inc. of wilmington, del., each said they expected to net $ million from the transaction.. tastemaker, a cincinnati based company that makes flavoring and citrus specialities used in foods and beverages, has about , employees in the united states, holland, england, mexico, australia and japan. it had sales of about $ million.. roche said tastemaker will be strategic fit with its givaudan roure unit, an international fragrances, flavors and aroma chemicals business. givaudan roure had consolidated sales of . billion swiss francs ($ million) in .. roche's other core businesses include pharmaceuticals, vitamins and fine chemicals, and diagnostics.. for mallinckrodt and hercules, the deal enables the two companies to shed a venture that they formed in by combining their smaller food ingredient and flavors businesses.. "we've said that we would look for the best way to create value (from the tastemaker venture)," hercules spokeswoman amy binder said.. she added that hercules, a speciality chemical company, will use its cash proceeds to repurchase shares. hercules shares gained . cents to $ on the new york stock exchange in afternoon trading.. mallinckrodt said it expected to use part of its proceeds to buy back up to $ million in stock over the next months and also will look for acquisitions to build its human health care business.. mallinckrodt's $ million deal with roche includes the swiss company assuming about $ million of mallinckrodt debt. that, analysts said, puts mallinckrodt in a better position to make acquisitions.. last august, mallinckrodt said it would seek a buyer for its tastemaker venture and would "explore options" for its animal health division while focusing on its core businesses of speciality chemicals and human health care.. "we have said explicitly that we expect to use proceeds from (tastemaker) and from our animal health business ... for strategic acquisitions," said cole lannum, director of investor relations for mallinckrodt.. asked if a potential sale of the animal health business was pending, lannum said it was "certainly possible that we'll have a deal by the end of the fiscal year" which ends in june.. future acquisitions for mallinckrodt likely would be in the hospital supply area, which includes pharmaceuticals. mallinckrodt makes analgesic drugs, diagnostic imaging agents, medical devices and other pharmaceutical products.. "mallinckrodt gets the liquidity that they're looking for to reinvest in their core business, especially on the medical side," a.g. edwards analyst gary stevenson said of the deal.. mallincrkrodt's stock fell cents to $. in late afternoon after trading as high as $. earlier in the day on the new york stock exchange.. roche is a worldwide research based health care group with , employees in more than countries. it recorded sales of about billion swiss francs ($. billion)..