conagra inc said tuesday its spread of operations across the food chain from seed distribution to meat processing and frozen foods is a positive for the company that outweighs its exposure to the commodity markets.. "i see it as a great positive," conagra chairman philip fletcher said in an interview tuesday. conagra was among the food companies presenting at an analyst conference here. . in the past, conagra has faced some criticism for having commodity sensitive operations that could be a drag on its value added foods such as its $. billion healthy choice line.. "as you look around the globe with the doubling of the population by , they aren't going to be buying frozen foods in a lot of those markets," fletcher said. "but they sure...are going to be buying a lot of chicken, hogs and...grain (products)...i see the front end of the chain providing us, frankly, a lot more opportunity for the next five or so years than the back end of the chain." . across its scope of food operations, conagra continues to seek out acquisitions that typically contribute about one third of its earnings growth over time, bruce rohde, vice chairman, added.. "every year we do a dozen or so (acquisitions)," he said.. fletcher said acquisitions are scouted out by top executives at its various operating divisions, who must then "sell" the idea to the corporation.. "we think the acquisition process is one of our strengths," fletcher added. . beyond acquisitions, conagra continues to grow by new product introductions, particularly in its grocery products division. in the first half of fiscal , conagra's grocery products posted a percent rise in operating profits.. "the key driver these days is to make our food much more easy to prepare," david gustin, president of conagra grocery products, said.. while studies indicate a desire to eat more at home, consumers continue to shy away from traditional cooking.. "this requires a drastic change in our attitude toward what the definition of convenience is," gustin said.. for many consumers, he added, this means meal preparation times of five to minutes.. conagra's new products aimed at greater convenience include its butterball brand baked chicken and healthy choice hearty handfuls microwaveable stuffed sandwiches.. other new products being launched by conagra include a line of popcorn snack cakes under its orville redenbacher's brand.. ((chicago newsdesk, )).