reliastar financial corp. said monday it would acquire security connecticut corp. in a stock exchange deal worth $ million, including debt.. minneapolis based reliastar said the deal, which values security connecticut corp. of avon, conn., at $ a share, will broaden the insurance products sold by both firms.. "we identified security connecticut as a company that was positioned in the market with both product lines and distribution that fit very well with ours. they were strong where we weren't so strong, and we had products that we were sure their distribution chain could sell," reliastar chairman john turner said in a telephone interview.. based on friday's closing price of $. for reliastar common stock, security connecticut stockholders would receive . of a share of reliastar common stock for each share of security connecticut common stock.. the transaction, valued at $ million, includes reliastar's assumption of $ million of security connecticut debt, the companies said.. the combined company would have assets under management of $. billion and $. billion of life insurance in force, making it the nation's th largest life insurance company.. following the news, security connecticut's stock jumped $ to $. in consolidated afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange, while reliastar dropped cents to $., also on the nyse.. reliastar said the merger was expected to result in at least $ million in annual pretax cost reductions. another $ million may be saved with the planned consolidation of reliastar's and security connecticut's new york operations, turner added.. turner said some jobs were expected to be eliminated as a result of the deal but added that the number had not been determined. reliastar employes about , people and security connecticut about .. reliastar expects to reap the main benefit of the deal in its revenues.. "the big payoff is in the cross selling," turner said.. for example, reliastar has variable life and annuity products that expand security connecticut's offerings. security connecticut has second to die life insurance policies, which cover two people such as a husband and wife, and term life products that complement reliastar.. "cross selling works best when products and distribution are complementary and not redundant," dain bosworth analyst j. chris sergeant said in a phone interview. "it's set up to be successful.". "i think it's a good deal," nutmeg securities analyst ira zuckerman said. "reliastar picked up an excellent marketing operation.". reliastar financial provides individual life insurance and annuities, employee benefits, reinsurance, retirement plans and mutual fund services. security connecticut specialises in life insurance and annuity products sold through independent general agents nationwide.. after the close of the merger, security connecticut's two subsidiaries, security connecticut life insurance co. and lincoln security life insurance co., will become part of reliastar financial, the companies said.. "reliastar and security connecticut are a perfect complement to each other in both products and distribution," security connecticut chairman ronald jarvis said in a statement.. jarvis will continue to serve as chief executive of security connecticut life insurance co. and will be a member of the boards of reliastar life insurance and reliastar bankers security life insurance, two wholly owned units of reliastar financial corp. he also will be part of the reliastar management committee.. the deal is subject, among other things, to approval by security connecticut stockholders.. reliastar said that, as part of the deal, it would issue some million additional shares of common stock, but the actual number of shares to be issued would be determined when the transaction is completed. reliastar also proposed buying back up to $ million in its stock as part of the transaction..