u.s. sales of general motors corp. cars and trucks in november dropped nearly percent from a year ago because of strikes in the united states and canada and major model changeovers, the automaker said tuesday.. the world's largest automaker said its total u.s. vehicle sales for the month fell to , from , a year earlier.. gm car sales plunged . percent to ,, while total truck sales, despite strike related production losses, rose . percent to ,.. gm said walkouts by the united auto workers and canadian auto workers unions in october and early november reduced the availability of its full size pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, as well as its high volume chevrolet lumina, monte carlo, cavalier and cadillac deville car lines.. in addition, sales of several key high volume models that gm is replacing were down significantly from year ago levels due to model changeovers.. "we expect gm's car maket share to struggle along for about six months," said lincoln merrihew, auto analyst with dri/mcgraw hill in cambridge, mass. "they're running out of old product.". production of the chevrolet corsica and beretta compact cars was recently ended, and sales were down percent to , units. gm dealers have not yet begun selling the cars' replacement, the chevrolet malibu.. chevrolet, gm's largest division, had november sales of ,, a drop of more than percent from ,.. car sales for other gm divisions fell in november, with pontiac off . percent, oldsmobile off . percent, buick off . percent, cadillac off . percent and saturn off . percent.. the automaker also blamed the drop partly on the fact that it has been less aggressive than chrysler corp. and ford motor co. with incentives on models.. merrihew said about percent of all model cars and trucks currently offered rebates of $, or more.. for the first months of , gm dealers have sold ,, total vehicles, down . percent from the same period of .. gm's numbers, which came one day after chrysler reported a percent increase in november sales, confirmed analyst projections that november will be a weak month for detroit's big three automakers.. that was not the case with three japanese automakers, toyota motor corp., honda motor co. ltd. and mitsubishi motors corp... spurred by strong sales of its new camry sedan, toyota reported total november sales of ,, a . percent increase.. "consumer confidence and spending have proven surprisingly resilient in the fourth quarter, driving industry sales far beyond expectations," yale gieszl, executive vice president of toyota motor sales usa inc., said in a statement.. toyota said it sold , camrys last month, a percent increase and its best ever november performance. total sport utility sales were ,, more than double a year ago.. toyota said its new runner had sales of ,, a record for november and an increase of . percent. the rav mini sport utility continued to exceed sales expectations and had november sales of ,.. honda sales rose nearly percent to ,, riding the strength of the company's accord, which had a percent jump in sales to ,.. while total car sales for honda rose . percent to ,, honda light truck sales fell percent to ,.. mitsubishi sales for the month rose . percent to , units, with a . percent increase in domestic car sales offsetting declines in import car and truck sales.. nissan motor co. ltd. said its u.s. november sales fell . percent to , cars, due to a . percent drop in domestic car sales.. ford is expected to report its sales results on wednesday..