ford motor co. said wednesday its u.s. light vehicle sales fell . percent in november as a steep drop in car sales offset gains in trucks, capping off a disappointing month for the industry.. earlier this week general motors corp. reported a percent drop in november sales, while chrylser corp. reported a . percent increase.. ford said it sold , cars and light trucks, compared with , a year earlier.. domestic car sales fell . percent to , units, while light truck sales rose . percent to ,. ford's import car sales fell . percent to ,.. "the retail market's shift from cars to light trucks not only has continued, but is gaining momentum as the year progresses," said robert rewey, ford group vice president of sales and marketing.. ford's combined explorer, mountaineer and expedition sport utility vehicle sales rose percent to , units. rewey added that ford planned to ease shortages of its four wheel drive vehicles by adding new component capacity in the first quarter of .. but november sales of every ford car line, except the taurus mid size sedan, declined from the year ago period.. taurus sales rose percent to ,, enough to preserve the car's lead over the honda accord in the perennial duel for the best selling car in the united states. so far this year, americans have purchased or leased , tauruses vs. , accords and , toyota camrys.. ford's sales brought total industry u.s. car and light truck sales for november to ,, vehicles, down . percent from the ,, units sold a year earlier.. the seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for the month was . million units, compared with . million units a year earlier, and . million units for the month of october. the rate is calculated with seasonal factors supplied by the commerce department.. general motors on tuesday reported a percent drop in november sales, fueled by strikes and model changeovers, while chrylser reported a . percent increase in sales.. toyota motor corp. and honda motor co. ltd. were the industry standouts, with sales gains of . percent and . percent, respectively.. analysts said the lackluster november results for detroit's big three automakers did not signal the start of a downturn in the u.s. vehicle market.. "i think one of the problems in november was that you had thanksgiving late in the month, with only two selling days after it, compared to six last year," said smith barney auto analyst david healy in new york.. "december seems to have gotten off to a good start, so i think we'er going to have a good close to the year," he said.. for the first months of , automakers sold ,, light vehicles, up . percent on a daily selling rate basis from the ,, sold a year earlier. analysts predicted that the year end total will be about . million to . million vehicles.. automakers sold , north american built cars in the united states in november, down . percent from a year ago. domestic truck sales totaled , during november, up . percent from a year earlier..