automakers ended a strong with a whimper friday, as general motors corp. said december u.s. car and truck sales fell nearly percent and chrysler corp. managed a . percent sales gain for the month.. chrysler's full year sales of . million vehicles, however, broke the company's record, and the industry stayed on track to report full year sales of . million cars and light trucks, matching the total that was also its best year since . automakers sold about . million cars and light trucks in the united states in .. "it was a pretty good year as a whole, but it's closing on a soft note," burnham securities analyst david healy said.. december sales from the automakers who reported friday ran . percent below the year ago results, but full year sales were up . percent. analysts predicted that the seasonally adjusted annual sales rate for the month would be about . million to . million units, compared with a strong december rate of . million units.. several japanese automakers also reported december sales declines on friday. ford motor co. and honda motor co. ltd. are set to release year end sales results on monday.. gm's car sales fell . percent in december and normally stronger sales of gm trucks also fell a sharp . percent.. the december declines brought the auto giant's full year vehicle sales to ,, cars and trucks, a . percent decline from the ,, units sold in .. gm's sales for the year were marred by strikes that disrupted production in march, late october and early november, but analysts said car model changeovers and stiff competition in trucks also took a toll.. "i think we're past the point where you can use the strikes as an excuse," healy said. "i think ford and chrysler are beginning to hurt gm in the truck area, where its products aren't fresh any more.". still, gm said truck sales for the full year exceeded million units for the first time, rising . percent over .. gm marketing chief ronald zarrella predicted gains in both cars and trucks in , fueled by new sedans, minivans and increased sport/utility vehicle producion.. "the positive reception our new for ' models are receiveing from both our dealers and customers is a certain sign that the coming year will be a good one for general motors and its dealers," zarrella said in a statement.. gm's market share has hovered near percent in recent months, continuing a steady decline over the past decade.. by contrast, chrysler estimates that its market share increased by nearly percentage points to nearly percent.. bolstered by strong sales of minivans, pickup trucks and sport/utility vehicles, chrysler said its sales totaled ,, vehicles, up percent from 's ,,. it broke the previous annual record of ,, units, set in .. chrysler said december sales of north american built vehicles rose . percent but light truck sales dipped . percent in the month. for the full year, chrysler's domestic car sales rose . percent to , units while light truck sales rose . percent ,,.. chrysler's executive vice president of sales, james holden, said chrysler may have difficulty surpassing results this year in some months due to model changeovers. he said the industry will still need incentives to maintain its sales pace.. "i don't see a way to wean ourselves completely from rebates and incentives, but i expect to hold them to similar levels to what we've had, which have been relatively modest.". chrysler stock rose cents to $. while gm fell . cents to close at $., both on the new york stock exchange.. among japanese automakers, toyota motor corp. said december sales fell . percent while full year sales rose . percent to . million units.. nissan motor corp.'s december sales dipped . percent and full year sales fell . percent to , units.. mazda motor corp.'s december total was off . percent while annual sales fell . percent to , units.. germany's volkswagen ag posted its best u.s. sales year since , with sales up . percent to , cars and trucks. december sales jumped . percent..