general motors corp., stung by years of steady losses in its u.s. market share including another . percentage points in wednesday vowed to aggressively reverse the trend in .. "in , we plan on aggressively increasing our u.s. share," chairman jack smith told reporters at the north american international auto show here.. gm remains the world's largest automaker, but it has sunk far since its glory days in the s when it commanded half of the u.s. market. as recently as the mid s it held as much as percent of the u.s. passenger car market.. in , gm's u.s. light vehicle sales fell . percent to . million units, causing its market share to drop to . percent from . percent in and . percent in .. smith said the company's u.s. market share was hurt in by costly labor strikes in march and october, as well as by factory down time to retool for new models.. the strikes by the united auto workers and canadian auto workers cost gm an estimated $. billion to $. billion in profits in as the company lost production of about , vehicles, said gm north american operations president g. richard wagoner.. wagoner added, however, that the strikes were "worth it" because they resulted in productivity related gains for the automaker.. smith added that there could be other work stoppages, as gm still needed to reach local labor agreements at many of its assembly and parts plants.. assuming gm's labor relations are peaceful, the company expects to utilize more than percent of its north american factory capacity in , which will significantly help the company's profitability.. gm's factory utilization in fell below the percent it had in , but was still well above the dark days of , when it sank to percent and led to massive losses.. wagoner said gm was getting back on track toward reaching its goal of a percent return on sales in north america but would not reach that level until the end of the decade.. smith said gm was in a "strong position" to regain market share this year with new models being introduced during the model year. gm will not sacrifice profitability to gain market share, but will stay competitive with other automakers in offering incentives, he said.. "what we're looking for is for our products to sell themselves," smith said. "if we're in a market where somebody else has heavy incentives, we're going to be competitive. we're going to be a player.". gm, however, sees greater opportunities for growth in its international operations, where sales in are expected to expand to $ billion from $ billion in .. worldwide, smith said gm holds about percent of the global car and truck market and is aiming to raise that share by expanding into growing areas of the world, including asia, latin america and eastern europe.. gm will expand its investments in overseas operations faster than in the united states, but it does not plan to cut back on north american product investment.. smith also announced that the automaker was developing new technologies that could help improve the fuel efficiency of its cars by percent. those include.. a new direct injection diesel engine that is now being introduced in overseas markets. the four cylinder diesel could raise fuel economy in gm's minivans to miles per gallon from about miles per gallon for current v gasoline engines.. an electric powered transmission flywheel that gives a boost to a conventional drivetrain and increases fuel economy. it also acts as a starter and alternator for the vehicle.. lightweight aluminum body structures that save weight.. hybrid electric vehicle technology that combine internal combustion engines and electric motors to gain dramatic range and efficiency improvements over both electric and conventional cars..