buoyed by strong sales of light trucks, chrysler corp. tuesday reported better than expected fourth quarter earnings, but special charges held the automaker back from its best ever full year profit.. detroit's no. automaker posted net income of $ million, or $. per share, during the fourth quarter after $ million in charges. excluding those charges, chrysler's operating earnings were a record $. billion, or $. a share. in the fourth quarter of , chrysler posted profits of $. billion, or $. a share.. chrysler's full year net income came to $. billion, or $. per share, including $ million in special charges. the total fell short of the company's all time record of $. billion.. on a pretax basis, chrysler earned $. billion for all of , a full year record that topped 's $. billion.. chrysler, which was fighting for its life five years ago, rewarded its , u.s. employees handsomely for the results, saying they will receive average profit sharing checks of $, in february more than double the $, they received last year.. comerica bank economist david littman estimated that the payments to chrysler's , workers in michigan could boost the state's economy by as much as $ million.. wall street also cheered the results. chrysler's stock rose $. a share to close at $ on the new york stock exchange.. analysts said shares of general motors corp. and ford motor co., which report results next week, rose in sympathy. gm shares closed up $. at $, while ford shares closed up cents at $... driving the gains for was a . percent increase in worldwide factory vehicle sales, to . million from . million in . strong sales of trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans, pushed chrysler's share of the u.s. and canadian car and truck market to . percent from . percent in .. "there is no end to the improvements we can achieve if we remain vigilant about controlling our costs and about continually improving our processes and our products," chrysler chairman robert eaton said in a statement. "that's the challenge we're all focused on and its one i'm confident we'll meet.". during the fourth quarter, chrysler's profit was reduced by $ million in charges that covered the early retirement of debt; higher united auto workers pension costs; a voluntary early retirement program; and the write down of chrysler's investment in pentastar electronics, a defence subsidiary sold to a huntsville, ala., investor group for $ million.. excluding the charges, chrysler earned $. billion for the fourth quarter and $. billion for the year, beating two year old records for operating results.. john casesa, an analyst at schroder wertheim, said a strong mix of high profit vehicles, such as minivans and dodge ram pickup trucks, led to an increase of in the company's profit margin to . percent from . percent.. chrysler's fourth quarter profit per vehicle viewed as the envy of the industry rose $ from a year earlier to $,, but fell short of the company's record level of $, in the fourth quarter of .. "it was a good quarter, but i don't think it was a great quarter," said painewebber analyst michael ward. "they are not at their peak operating margin.". ward and other analysts said the margin pressure was due to an increase in u.s. incentives per vehicle to $ from $ in and $ in . increased spending on new products and overseas expansion, as well as higher labour and pension costs, also helped to eat into margins.. still, chrysler is "hitting on all cylinders, and they're sold out," noted dean witter reynolds inc.analyst ron glantz.. eaton told reporters in a conference call that chrysler's financial position was so strong it might not need to dip into its approximately $ billion cash reserve to fund operations and stay profitable during the next industry downturn.. "that would allow us to use a significant portion of our cash reserves for growth opportunities that might just occur during such a downturn," eaton said..