comerica inc. said wednesday it will cut , jobs, or about percent of its work force, as part of an effort to slash costs and boost revenues by $ million annually by the first half of .. the detroit based banking company said the restructuring actions caused it to incur a $ million pretax charge against its fourth quarter earnings, which fell to $. million, or cents a share, from $. million, or cents a share, in the year ago period.. comerica, with $ billion in assets at the end of , said the actual number of employees to be laid off may be less than , because of attrition, a hiring freeze and reinvestment actions.. the company has about , employees in michigan, texas, california and florida. the cuts will fall in all four states and will take place between now and mid , comerica said.. "regrettably, as we streamline processes and eliminate redundancies, a number of employees throughout the corporation will be displaced," comerica chairman eugene miller said in a statement. "to assist these employees, we have put in place an enhanced severance plan with out placement services to help their transition.". comerica also said it planned to close about a dozen branch offices.. comerica, michigan's largest independent bank holding company, has been the subject of merger speculation in the past year. however, it has steadfastly maintained it is not interested in being acquired by an out of state bank and has instead embarked on a long effort to streamline its operations.. comerica said the third phase of its restructuring effort includes other initiatives to reduce costs and enhance revenues. they include.. eliminating one third of paper forms and replacing them with electronic forms.. simplifying the referral and delivery of investment services.. giving branch employees more authority and reducing their clerical duties so they can serve customers better.. reducing the documentation required to open a new account.. streamlining the credit approval process.. streamlining financial and operations reporting.. for the full year, comerica earned $. million, or $. a share, up from $. million, or $. a share, in ..