general motors corp.'s . percent drop in fourth quarter earnings from continuing operations earnings was a disappointment long anticipated by wall street, but the automaker's strong cash generation has hopes raised for a strong performance in .. despite the earnings drop, gm's cash and marketable securities topped the $ billion mark at year end, up $. billion from september , and up $. billion from a year earlier. . although $ billion of gm's fourth quarter cash increase came from a tax refund, analysts said the $. billion increase in cash from strike marred operations was impressive.. "it's a good news bad news quarter," said burnham securities analyst david healy. "it suggests that if is normal and largely free of strikes, it ought to be another good year for cash generation.". gm's fourth quarter north american production volume, mauled by strikes and new model launches, fell . percent, resulting in a $ million north american loss, compared to a year earlier profit of $ million. . but analysts expect gm to bounce back in with new models and robust production. and as the new product benefits that management has been promising for several years materialize, gm's profits and cash flow should swell.. j.p. morgan analyst david bradley estimated that gm in could wind up with $ billion in cash at the end of , including about $. billion from the sale of hughes aircraft co to raytheon corp.. that's about $ billion above gm's cash reserve target of $ billion, and he added that gm could make up to $ billion of that available for stock repurchases. . "this company could have enough cash to buy back a quarter of its shares," bradley said.. gm on monday committed to repurchasing $. billion worth of stock in the next months, but gm chief financial officer j. michael losh said the automaker wants to complete that quickly and "revisit" the stock buyback issue.. nonetheless, gm shares fell / to /, reflecting profit taking on the stock's climb from the last month, earnings that were roughly in line with expectations and continued market disappointment that gm did not announce a bigger stock buyback program. . "i think the disappointment of yesterday was not counterbalanced by positive surprises today," said prudential securities analyst philip fricke.. gm reported that its fourth quarter net income from continuing operations, which included a host of extraordinary items, came to $ million, or $. a share, down from $. billion, or $. a share, a year earlier.. the results also included weaker profits in europe, which is plagued with a slumping market. earnings from international operations, long gm's standout performer, will likely be flat or declining next year, putting more pressure on gm's north american operations.. fricke said is a "show and tell" year for that must reveal steady improvements in the automaker's vehicle profit margins.. "what will be the telling factor is whether the improvement in operating income goes way beyond what can be explained by higher production volumes," he said.. to accomplish that, gm's new cars and trucks must be a hit with consumers and help reverse the automaker's long term slide in u.s. market share. gm ended with about percent of the u.s. market, down from . percent in .. "gm has to make believers out of people as far as market share goes," added healy. "if they don't gain market share this year, i don't know if they ever will.".