shares of network stocks fell on thursday amid fears that com corp's merger with u.s. robotics corp would heap new burdens on an industry already struggling with a raft of near term issues.. analysts said the $. billion merger plan boosted pressure on other network players to use their discounted shares as currency to fund major acquisitions of their own.. some said com's $. billion offer for u.s. robotics stock and options put a low ball valuation on the modem maker of times earnings, versus a historic times multiple. . "if anything this deal is more of a take under than a takeover," salomon analyst peter swartz said of the com deal.. "this deal says the days of the to percent premiums paid in previous networking acquisitions are over," swartz said, noting many stocks were now trading at historic lows.. "both stocks are down percent from their highs," he pointed out.. by midafternoon, u.s. robotics shares were up / at /, well below the / contemplated by the terms of com's merger offer. com stock was off / points at /. . donaldson lufkin analyst eric buck harshly criticized the terms of the deal. "i think u.s. robotics shareholders are being robbed," he said.. in the wake of the deal, industry leader cisco systems inc was down / to , ascend communications inc lost / points to and cascade communications corp was down / to /.. "we believe the competitive landscape of the networking sector is undergoing a fundamental restructuring," j.p. morgan's bill rabin said in published comments. "other networking vendors will have to combine or be bought." . still, rabin reiterated buy ratings on four stocks in the sector, while maintaining his market perform rating on com. swartz also kept his buy rating on com shares, and recommended investors take advantage of price weakness.. the main beneficiaries of the com robotics deal appeared to be bay networks inc and shiva corp two stocks that have sat in the doghouse for some time based on their potential as acqusition targets, analysts said.. shiva rose / to /, recovering from its historic low, while bay added / to /. . in comments to his sales force, merrill analyst joe bellace said shiva, among other remote access suppliers, may be a more likely acquisition target over the next two years in light of the com robotics deal, market sources said.. "the merger forces other players in the industry to ante up to play in this bigger game," said steve harmon, an independent analyst who publishes the internet stock report.. "it forces equipment makers to look for end to end solutions supplying network products to both businesses and consumers," he said of how the com robotics merger would allow the combined company to compete in both markets. . strong break up penalties the com robotics deal would levy if either party backs out, makes it unlikely another suitor will arise with a sweeter offer, analysts said.. earnings shortfalls, or close calls, fears of slowing industry growth, and cautionary comments from com, cascade and shiva have excited fears about the whole sector, rabin said.. in addition, technology changes in the industry and the growing threat of competition from outsiders such as chip makers intel corp and rockwell international corp have weighed down the prospects for the industry as a whole.. some analysts cited fears that intel may decide to integrate network adapter cards or modem chips directly into the computer chassis its builds, rendering stand alone products from many network suppliers a commodity, if not obsolete.. (( e. auchard, wall street bureau, )).