at&amp;t corp. said monday its first quarter profits fell percent, trimmed by competition in long distance services and investments in new businesses, and warned second quarter results might be weak as well.. meanwhile, bellsouth corp., a strong performer among regional telephone companies, said its operating earnings rose percent due to a rise in the number of customer lines and strong growth in its wireless operations.. at&amp;t said it earned $. billion, or cents a share, on revenues of $. billion, down from net income of $. billion, or cents a share, on revenues of $. billion in the first quarter of .. at&amp;t's earnings per share for the first quarter were in line with wall street's expectations based on previous guidance the company had provided financial analysts.. "results are where we expected them to be as we implement our strategy," chairman robert allen said in a statement.. in a conference call monday, at&amp;t also warned that its second quarter results were likely to be weaker than the first quarter but that its expectations for the full year remained on track.. most wall street analysts said they planned to reduce their earnings estimates for the remainder of the year.. "there was not a great deal to cheer in the results," goldman sachs analyst richard klugman said.. at&amp;t's first quarter revenue increase was driven by growth in local telephone service and other initiatives, business long distance services and wireless services. that was partially offset by declines in financial services and consumer long distance revenues, the company said.. at&amp;t said long distance calling volume in the most recent quarter increased by . percent over the same period of , but revenue from those services rose only . percent to $. billion.. volume from consumer long distance was flat and revenue fell percent to $. billion, the company said. revenue from business long distance rose . percent on a double digit increase in volume.. "at&amp;t's results portend a tougher environment for other long distance companies of all sizes," said merrill lynch analyst daniel reingold, adding that prices in the industry were falling more steeply than he expected.. what is bad news for at&amp;t and its rivals, however, is good news for consumers who are already seeing the benefit of sharply lower international calling rates, analysts said.. atlanta based bellsouth said it earned $ million, or cents a share, on revenues of $. billion in the three months ended march , slightly ahead of wall street expectations.. a year earlier the company earned $ million, or cents a share, before a one time gain of $ million, or cents a share, on the sale of paging operations.. revenues were $. billion in the quarter.. "bellsouth's th consecutive quarter of improved operating results was driven by our innovative marketing," said chief executive officer duane ackerman, adding that, "sales increased across the board.". the company said the number of customer lines increased by , the biggest gain for any quarter in its history, breaking the old mark of , set in the first quarter of . bellsouth now has a total of . milllion access lines.. bellsouth said the company's u.s. cellular operations ended the first quarter with . million customers, reflecting an annual growth rate of percent. in international cellular markets, customers rose percent since the first quarter of , reaching . million.. "these are just blistering numbers," montgomery securities analyst bill vogel said of bellsouth's growth in customer access lines and the value added services like caller id and call waiting the company offers in addition to basic access.. "they not only have the access lines growing, but the services on those lines growing sharply," he said.. vogel, who maintains a "buy" rating on the stock, said he expected bellsouth earnings to accelerate beyond the percent rise seen in the first quarter as the company benefits from rising growth in new services.. bellsouth stock closed down cents at $. and at&amp;t closed off . cents at $, on the new york stock exchange..