u s west communications group. reported better than expected first quarter earnings friday, citing successful marketing programmes and tighter cost controls.. the englewood, colo. based telephone operator earned $ million, or cents per share, in the first quarer, up from $ million, or cents, a year earlier.. the earnings were several cents ahead of wall street expectations, which, according to first call inc., put earnings at cents a share.. "u s west communications group has started off with double digit momentum on the heels of 's accelerating results," said richard mccormick, chairman of u s west inc., the holding group for the phone company.. u s west communications serves more than million customers in western and midwestern states.. u s west officials cautioned analysts against raising their earnings projections for the year, saying investments in new wireless networks and growing competition were likely to dampen earnings growth.. the current consensus estimate for the year has u s west communications earning $. per share vs. $. per share in , according to first call.. "absent a significant regulatory shift, we remain comfortable with the consensus estimate for the year," chief financial officer allan spies told wall street analysts.. spies stood by a prediction u s west made at a february analysts' meeting, projecting overall earnings growth of percent to percent in . first quarter earnings per share grew . percent.. revenues rose percent to $. billion from $. billion.. the company said local service revenues grew . percent to $. billion in the quarter, with almost half the growth driven by sales of value added features beyond basic access.. it said caller id subscribers rose by an unprecendented , in the first quarter due to an aggressive promotional campaign. the product is now used by percent of its residential customers.. goldman sachs analyst richard klugman said the company also benefited from labour cost cuts. u s west communications trimmed , employees in the last four quarters. it now has a work force of just over ,.. u s west communications, among other baby bell stocks, rose amid speculation of other combinations after u.s. regulators approved the merger of bell atlantic corp. and nynex corp.. it closed up $. at $. on the new york stock exchange..