genetic probing of the first and second transmembrane helices of the plasma membrane h(+) atpase from saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . structural features of the putative helical hairpin region comprising transmembrane segments (tm) and (tm) of the yeast plasma membrane h(+) atpase were probed by site directed mutagenesis. the importance of phenylalanine residues phe , phe , phe , phe , phe , phe , and phe was explored by alanine replacement mutagenesis. it was found that substitutions at all positions, except phe and phe , produced viable enzymes, although a range of cellular growth phenotypes were observed like hygromycin b resistance and low ph sensitivity, which are linked to in vivo action of the h(+) atpase. lethal positions phe and phe , could be replaced with tryptophan to produce viable enzyme, although the fw mutant was highly perturbed. atp hydrolysis measurements showed that km was not significantly altered for most mutant enzymes, whereas vmax was moderately reduced with two mutants, fw and fa, showing less than % of the normal activity. double phe &gt;ala mutations in tm and tm were constructed to examine whether such substitutions would result in a higher degree of enzyme destabilization. mutant fa/fa was viable and gave a normal phenotype, while fa/fa was not viable. other double mutants, fa/fa and faf/a, which are predicted to lie juxtaposed on tm and tm, produced non functional enzymes. however, a viable fv/fa mutant was isolated and showed hygromycin b resistance. these results suggest that double mutations eliminating phenylalanine residues strongly destabilize the enzyme. a putative proline kink at gly /pro in tm is not essential for enzyme action since these residues could be variously substituted (ga or gn; pa, pg, or pf) producing viable enzymes with moderate effects on in vitro atp hydrolysis or proton transport. however, several substitutions produced prominent growth phenotypes, suggesting that local perturbations were occurring. the location of pro is important because gly and pro could not be exchanged. in addition, a double pro pro created by a gp mutation was lethal, suggesting that maintenance of an alpha helical structure is important. other mutations in the hairpin, including modification of a buried charged residue, ea, were not critical for enzyme action. these data are consistent with the view that the helical hairpin comprising tm and tm has important structural determinants that contribute to its overall stability and flexibility.