mutations of g and their second site revertants in the plasma membrane h(+) atpase gene (pma) in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . a gd mutation residing near the cytoplasmic end of transmembrane segment of the h(+) atpase from saccharomyces cerevisiae appears to alter electrogenic proton transport by the proton pump (perlin et al. () j. biol. chem. , .) the mutation confers upon whole cells a pronounced growth sensitivity to low ph and a resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin b. the isolated enzyme retains high activity (% of wild type) but is inefficient at pumping protons in a reconstituted vesicle system, suggesting that this enzyme may be partially uncoupled (perlin et al. () j. biol. chem. , ). in this study, the acid sensitive growth phenotype of the pma d mutant was utilized to isolate second site suppressor mutations in an attempt to probe structural interactions involving amino acid . site directed mutagenesis of the g locus was also performed to explore its local environment. nineteen independent revertants of pma gd were selected as low ph resistant colonies. four were full phenotypic revertants showing both low ph resistance and hygromycin b sensitivity. of three full revertants analyzed further, one restored the original glycine residue at position while the other two carried compensatory mutations va or fs, in transmembrane segments and , respectively. partial revertants, which could grow on low ph medium but still retained hygromycin b resistance, were identified in transmembrane segments (va) and (ct, gc), as well as in the cytoplasmic n terminal domain (ek) and in the cytoplasmic loop between transmembrane segments and (dn, ls). relative to the gd mutant, all revertants showed enhanced net proton transport in whole cell medium acidification assays and/or improved atp hydrolysis activity. small polar amino acids (asp and ser) could be substituted for glycine at the position to produce active, albeit somewhat defective, enzymes; larger hydrophobic residues (leu and val) produced more severe phenotypes. these results suggest that g is likely to reside in a tightly packed polar environment which interacts, either directly or indirectly, with transmembrane segments , and . the revertant data are consistent with transmembrane segments and forming a conformationally sensitive helical hairpin structure.