probing the cytoplasmic loop domain of the yeast plasma membrane h(+) atpase by targeted factor xa proteolysis.. . the cytoplasmic domain linking transmembrane segments and (loop) of the yeast h(+) atpase was probed by the introduction of unique factor xa recognition sites. three sites, iegr, iegr and iegr, representing different structural regions of the loop domain, were engineered by site specific mutagenesis of the pma gene. in each case, multiple amino acid substitutions were required to form the factor xa sites, which enabled an analysis of clustered mutations. both iegr and iegr containing mutants grew at normal rates, but showed prominent growth resistance to hygromycin b and sensitivity to low external ph. the engineered iegr site within the predicted beta strand region produced a recessive lethal phenotype, indicating that mutations gi and fr were not tolerated. mutant iegr and iegr containing enzymes showed relatively normal km and vmax values, but they displayed a strong insensitivity to inhibition by vanadate. an iegr/iegr double mutant was more significantly perturbed showing a reduced vmax and pronounced vanadate insensitivity. the iegr site within the putative alpha helical stalk region was cleaved to a maximum of % by factor xa under non denaturing conditions resulting in a characteristic kda fragment, whereas the iegr site, near the end of the beta strand region, showed about % cleavage with the appearance of a kda fragment. a iegr/iegr double mutant enzyme showed about % cleavage. the cleavage profile for the mutant enzymes was enhanced under denaturing conditions, but was unaffected by mgatp or mgatp plus vanadate. cleavage at the iegr position had no adverse effects on atp hydrolysis or proton transport by the h(+) atpase making it unlikely that this localized region of loop influences coupling. overall, these results suggest that the local region encompassing iegr is accessible to factor xa, while the region around iegr appears buried. although there is no evidence for gross molecular motion at either site, the effects of multiple amino acid substitutions in these regions suggest that the loop domain is conformationally active, and that perturbations in this domain affect the distribution of conformational intermediates during steady state catalysis.