the long awaited turnaround in australia's housing market is expected to occur during but it is unlikely to signal a repeat of the boom seen in the s or the most recent peak in the / year.. lower immigration levels australia are seen as a major reason for the subdued demand for housing, analysts said.. however the anticipated housing recovery would be welcomed by building material companies, hardware chains and consumer goods manufacturers, who have blamed the recent housing slump for a fall in profits over the past months. . house construction is expected to total , homes in the / year to june , up from , a year earlier, according to the government's housing forecaster, the indicative planning council (ipc).. however this forecast is in doubt, according to building industry body, the master builders association (mba), which has said total building approvals needed to rise by around percent to meet the / forecast.. the / forecast is well down on the , homes built in the / high point and the , level reached in the previous peak in /. . ipc forecasts housing starts to average , a year to the / year.in the three years to / homes built averaged , per year.. "the markets won't take off without a substantial push from overseas migration, which of course is not particularly popular at the moment," said jim sibree, property consultant at consultancy bis shrapnel.. australia has been caught up in a debate over immigration started last year by independent politician pauline hanson whose call in september for a freeze on immigration appears to have struck a chord with many voters. . the australian government expects to take in about , immigrants during /, down from , in / and well below the levels taken in the s when the intake averaged between , and , a year.. the number of people leaving australia has averaged between , and , over the past decade.. overseas migration is seen as the major determinant of growth of the housing markets in sydney and melbourne, australia's two largest cities, both with populations of over three million. . "migration would have to go through the , level before it could give a major boost to the sydney and melbourne markets," sibree told reuters.. australia has taken about . million immigrants since the end of world war two, representing almost a quarter of the nation's current population of million.. the government current population projection is about million in years. . christianna cobbold, executive director of policy at the , housing industry association (hia) said the australian housing market was unlikely to repeat the growth it recorded over the past years, since the end of the "white australia policy.". "in the longer term i don't think we are going to see the massive growth we have seen in the past or years. we just don't have that sort of population growth," cobbold said.. cobbold said the hia plans a study into the effects of immigration on australia on economic, social and cultural levels. the study is expected to be completed by mid .. sydney newsroom .