television broadcaster seven network ltd is expected to report a rise in net profit for the first half of the / year, helped by an acquisition and by regaining market share, analysts said.. analysts contacted by reuters expect seven network to report a net profit of between a$ million and a$ million for the weeks ended december . seven reported a net profit of a$. million in the / half, but no tax was paid.. seven, expected to report half year results on wednesday, has said it expects to pay full income tax during /. . seven has not paid a full tax rate since it relisted on the australian stock exchange in .. seven's / half is a week shorter than the week period in the / half. analysts said comparing the two periods over a week period, seven's pre tax profit would be a$. million up from a$ million a year earlier.. analysts said on a like for like basis, australia's second largest commercial television network is expected to report underlying profit growth. . j.b. were &amp; son media analyst craig connelly forecast a pre tax profit of a$ million for the / half compared with a$ million a year earlier.. connelly forecast a$ million net profit for the group.. vince pepe, media analyst at burdett, buckeridge and young forecast seven to report a net profit of about a$ million to a$ million. "but i would not be surprised if they went above that," pepe told reuters. . a sydney based media analyst forecast seven to report a net profit of a$. million in the half year and a pre tax profit of a$. million. another melbourne based analyst forecast a half year net profit of a$ million.. the sydney analyst said the result would be partially boosted by the purchase of queensland based television network sunshine broadcasting in late for about a$ million.. "the first five months were tough but december seemed to pick up for them," pepe said. . most analysts estimated seven, which is percent owned by the group's chairman kerry stokes, to keep the half year dividend steady at . cents a share but one analyst forecast the dividend to rise to five cents a share.. analysts said there could be a chance that seven might report earnings for hollywood studio metro goldwyn mayer (mgm), in which it invested us$ million last year to take control of the studio along with u.s. investor kirk kerkorian.. they said mgm lost money on some film releases last year and overall losses for the studio could be running at about us$ million a month. . however analysts said mgm's estimated losses should not impact seven's result as the interest costs associated with the financing on the mgm investment will be capitialised.. analysts also said seven would at best make a small profit on the broadcasting of the atlanta olympics in august, with most analysts expecting the network to break even on the games.. seven, which is percent owned by rupert murdoch's news corp ltd, is expected to report pre tax profit of about a$ million in the / year, up from a$ million reported in the weeks to june , . . the full year dividend is estimated at between . and . cents a share, compared with . cents in the / year.. seven shares closed five cents up at a$. on friday.. sydney newsroom .