australia's flag carrier qantas airways ltd is expected to post a flat result for the six months ended december , , as a higher australian dollar and higher fuel charges keep profits under pressure.. analysts contacted by reuters expected qantas to report on thursday a pre abnormal net profit of between a$ million and a$ million with most estimates around a$ million.. qantas, which is percent owned by british airways plc, reported a pre abnormal net profit of a$. million in the / first half. . all analysts agreed that the qantas results would be largely affected by the higher australian dollar and increased jet fuel price. the local dollar hit a six year high of us$. in december, but was back around us$. on tuesday afternoon.. "on the international side, there will be some yield pressure compounded by the stronger australian dollar," said one sydney based aviation analyst, who forecast a net profit before abnormals of a$ million for the first half.. "on the domestic side there will be some yield pressure but they have managed to increase their market share," he said.. qantas' cost cutting programme was seen helping the shield the airline from a lower profit.. "i would not be forecasting an increase in profit if it wasn't for the cost cutting," the analyst said.. qantas increased its cost cutting target by a$ million to a$ million in / in november after cutting a$ million out of costs in the / year.. j.b were &amp; son aviation analyst justin arter forecasts qantas to post a pre abnormal net profit of a$ million.. analysts expect qantas keep the half year dividend steady at . cents a share.. however, another sydney based analyst, who also asked not to be identified, forecast qantas to report a pre abnormal net profit of a$ million for the half, citing currency and higher jet fuel prices as impacting on the first half result.. paul xavier, aviation analyst at broker bnp equities, expected qantas to report a lower pre abnormal net profit of a$ million for the six month period.. "there has been a bit of a lag effect between the costs increasing and the ability to pass that on through increased fares to passengers," said xavier, referring to his profit forecast.. qantas increased local fares in the second half of .. a melbourne based aviation analyst forecast qantas to report a pre abnormal net profit of a$. million for the half.. generally, conditions were expected to be better ofr qantas in the second half.. "hopefully fuel prices will come back a little bit and the second half will be stronger," the melbourne analyst said.. he added the falling australian dollar should also help the second half result.. the australian dollar is currently trading over us$... analysts' forecasts for qantas' pre abnormal net profit for the year to june , from a$ million up to a$ million.. qantas reported a net profit of a$. million in the / year. analysts said the cost cutting programme should start to yield better results in the / year.. analysts were also mixed on their views qantas share price, which has risen about percent since the end of november. some said it was a hold, while others said it still held good value.. at . p.m. ( gmt), qantas shares were one cent down at a$.. sydney newsroom .