building materials group boral ltd is expected to report a lower net profit before abnormals for the six months to december on wednesday, but the results should show signs of an improving housing market, analysts said.. building material analysts contacted by reuters forecast boral to report a pre abnormal net profit of between a$ million and a$ million for the / half year, compared with a$ million a year earlier.. analysts said although the first half was likely to be down on a year ago it should be up on the / second half. . bzw australia building material analyst greg burns forecasts boral to report a pre abnormal net profit of a$ million for the december half.. "non residentials are as strong as an ox, and it has been for many quarters, and housing, as far as approvals are concerned, bottomed in september," burns told reuters.. "i just think the six months to december will not have enough good news in it to get too excited," burns said.. anz securities building materials analyst sean cooney estimates boral to report a pre abnormal net profit of a$ million for the six month period. . cooney said australian building material companies had been reporting disappointing results for some time and boral was unlikely to any exception.. last week pioneer international ltd reported a . percent fall in net profit for the / first half.. "things have looked worst than some people have expected in australia's housing market and because boral has got a fairly significant exposure compared to the others, you expect it to be a bit more worse hit then the others," cooney told reuters.. abn amro hoare govett analyst fabian babich forecast a net profit before abnormals of a$ million for the first half. . merrill lynch building materials analyst michael brown forecast a first half pre abnormal net profit of a$ million.. john north at j.b. were &amp; son also estimated boral to report a pre abnormal net profit of a$ million.. analysts said they expected boral to pay a first half dividend of . cents.. in november, boral said it would maintain a . cents per share dividend for the december half, the same amount it paid in the / second half.. boral paid a . cents dividend in the / first half. . although analysts were in a narrow range for the first half result, forecasts for the / full year varied from a$. million to a$ million for pre abnormal net profit.. boral reported a net profit before abnormals of a$. million for the year to june , .. shares in the sydney based group have traded in a range between a$. and a$. since june , when they were around a.. at . p.m. ( gmt), boral shares were two cents lower at a$... sydney newsroom .