from. "nigel allen" . subject. hhs secretary shalala to address aft's paraprofessional and school related personnel conference. reply to. "nigel allen" . organization. canada remote systems. distribution. talk. lines. . . . here is a press release from the american federation of teachers.. . hhs secretary shalala to address aft's paraprofessional and. school related personnel conference. to. national and assignment desks, education writer. contact. jamie horwitz of american federation of teachers,. . . news advisory.. . secretary of health and human services donna shalala will speak. to the th annual aft paraprofessional and school related. personnel conference at p.m., friday, april , at the. washington hilton. shalala will discuss hhs's agenda for helping. children over the next four years.. aft's paraprofessional and school related personnel division. includes school workers such as paraprofessionals and teacher. aides, school bus drivers, school secretaries, school custodians. and maintenance workers and school food service workers. more. than a thousand school employees will attend the conference which. is being held at the washington hilton, april . most of the. school workers attending the conference come from urban school. districts where child health and nutrition, welfare reform and the. availability of head start and other preschool programs are major. issues.. workshops scheduled for the conference include sessions. addressing issues around reauthorization of chapter ; how. paraprofessionals and school related personnel, especially. minority men, can serve as student role models; the increasing. problem of school violence; dealing with abused children; and. assisting children with serious health problems.. for a complete conference schedule, contact jamie horwitz. at .. the american federation of teachers represents ,. elementary and secondary teachers, paraprofessionals and. school related personnel, higher education faculty, nurses, state. and municipal workers.. . . canada remote systems toronto, ontario. / .