britain's largest retail financial services group, lloyds tsb, on friday reported a percent surge in profits, but analysts said the figure was somewhat flattering and included lower than expected bad debt provisions.. pretax profits in the first full year following the merger between lloyds bank and tsb rose to . billion pounds ($. billion), and the bank, which has been the star performer in a booming british banking sector, said "the best is yet to come.". "we had a good year in but the combination of lloyds, tsb and cheltenham &amp; gloucester is not fully into its swing," lloyds tsb chairman sir brian pitman told reporters at a news conference.". pitman expects cost savings of million pounds every year from the merger and from the purchase of the percent minority interest in lloyds abbey life completed last year.. the profit figure followed . billion pounds the previous year. lloyds tsb raised its dividend by percent to . pence per share from p, while earnings per share soared by percent to .p from ... but banking analysts said the headline data flattered the bank's underlying performance somewhat and expressed some concern for future income growth. lloyds shares eased p to but later improved to stand a net p higher by gmt at p.. "there's nothing really wrong with the results," said john leonard, banking analyst at salomon brothers. "but they are not as glorious as they look on the surface.". analysts pointed out that the large drop in bad debt provisions percent down to million pounds was a surprise, even though some improvement was expected given that the bank has increased higher quality assets such as mortgages.. "bad debts were much lower than expected," said nick collier, banking analyst at morgan stanley, "and there was a bigger return from problem country debt.". specific provisons for bad and doubtful debts were down to million from million pounds in while profit from its problem country debt portfolio, mainly in latin america, jumped to million from million.. leonard and panmure gordon analyst david poutney both said they would likely not be increasing their profit forcasts for which stand at . billion pounds and . billion respectively.. but poutney, who has been advising clients to hold the shares but take profits, said he was now a seller.. "overall, they are good figures but then it comes down to the valuation of the shares," poutney said, "and they are looking a bit expensive. i can't see them making much headway from here.". lloyds said it made a restructuring provision of million pounds following its purchase of insurer lloyds abbey life and said it was raising its provision against possible redress from the mis selling of pensions by million pounds to million, a move welcomed as prudent by analysts.. pitman said lloyds was comparing itself with the "best u.s. companies" such as coca cola and ge and like them has adopted the "economic profit" measure as the best guide to its performance as it reflects growth in investment and return.. broadly speaking, economic profit represents the difference between earnings on a company's equity and the equity cost.. lloyds tsb said that, after excluding restructuring provisions, economic profit for was percent higher at . million pounds compared with million in .. pitman said the bank is likely to spend surplus capital on growth, both organic and by aquisition, or increasing dividends rather than on buying back shares like some of its competitors.. pitman said shareholders had urged the bank not to buy back shares but to continue to provide them with high returns.. "our capital ratios are greatly restored," pitman said, "and if we can, we would like to continue to grow (both) organically and by acquisition and increase dividends." ($=. pound).