banking analysts said on friday that lloyds tsb group plc's percent headline rise in pretax profits was rather flattering and expressed some concern for future income growth.. the pretax profit figure of . billion stg was just above top expectations although these had been expected to be bettered after some components of the group lloyds abbey life and cheltenham &amp; gloucester recently reported higher than expected gains.. "there's nothing really wrong with the results," said john leonard, banking analyst at salomon brothers. "but they are not as glorious as they look on the surface.". analysts pointed out that the large drop in bad debt provisions percent down to million stg was a surprise, even though improvement was expected given the fact that the bank has increased higher quality assets such as mortgages.. leonard and panmure gordon analyst david poutney said they would likely not be increasing their profit forcasts for which stand at . billion stg and . billion stg respectively.. but poutney, who has been advising clients to hold the shares but take profits, said he was now a seller.. "overall, they are good figures but then it comes down to the valuation of the shares," poutney said, "and they are looking a bit expensive. i can't see them making much headway from here.". lloyds tsb shares stood /p lower at /p at gmt.. poutney expressed concern that costs, which were down in the first half, had ended the year virtually flat and also noted that income growth had slowed in the second six months.. all analysts pointed out that the percent rise in the group's total dividend for to .p per share was more than the market had been expecting with lloyds continuing to pass value to shareholders via the dividend.. "bad debts were much lower than expected," said nick collier, banking analyst at morgan stanley, "and there was a bigger return from problem country debt.". specific provisons for bad and doubtful debts were down to million stg from million in while profit from its problem country debt portfolio, mainly in latin america, jumped to million stg from million.. lloyds said "problem country debt" had improved so much that it is renaming the portfolio "emerging markets debt.". other concerns in the figures included a sharp rise in general insurance claims to million stg from million in although analysts were happy that the group has increased its provision against claims from the pensions mis selling debacle by million stg to million.. dealing profits were also sharply lower at million stg compared to million in .. despite their concerns, analysts were generally positive, though, given the shares' outperformance last year, they said this would now be difficult to maintain in . london newsroom + ..