embattled nomura securities co ltd is expected to announce on thursday the best results among more than brokerages in japan for the last business year, but prospects for the current year are gloomy.. analysts said on monday that nomura's profits for the fiscal year which ended on march should be far ahead of its competitors thanks to huge profits in bond trading and bond underwriting.. however, they added that business for nomura in the / year would be sharply undermined by a scandal, with the size of the expected profit drop depending on how hard the finance ministry comes down on japan's largest brokerage after regulators complete their investigation.. japanese prosecutors and securities watchdog are investigating nomura for suspected illegal deals involving "sokaiya" racketeers, who extort money from a company by threatening to disturb shareholders' meetings.. in january, nomura announced pre tax, parent current profit of . billion yen ($ million) for the first nine months of /, against . billion yen ($ million) in actual current profit for the the full / year.. "nomura is expected to be the top in earnings in / with profits of more than billion yen ($ million)," said ayako sato, an analyst at ubs securities ltd.. other analysts said they expect nomura to post parent current profit pre tax profit which includes gains and losses made on securities investments and other non operating activities of between billion ($ million) and billion yen ($. billion).. in the first nine months, nomura posted . billion yen ($ million) in stock brokering commission against . billion yen ($ million) in /. net gains on bond trading stood at . billion yen ($ million) in the first nine months against . billion yen ($ million).. but industry sources said they would not be surprised if nomura posts a loss in the current year because many institutional and corporate investors have suspended their business with nomura since it revealed on march that two of its directors were involved in the suspected illegal deals.. nomura's share of trading volume on the tokyo stock exchange fell to . percent in march from . percent in february, toppling it from the top spot it has held since february .. if nomura's market share falls by percent, it will lose billion yen ($ million) in commissions, analysts said.. in addition, nomura's underwriting business has also been hit by the scandal.. the business daily nihon keizai shimbun reported last week that nomura had underwritten only . percent of the domestic straight bonds issued so far in april, compared with percent for all of the previous business year.. three other big brokerages daiwa securities co ltd, nikko securities co ltd t and yamaichi securities co ltd are also scheduled to announce their / results later this month.. analysts estimate yamaichi's parent current profit at nil in / against profits of . billion yen ($ million) in the profit in /, and nikko to have profit of billion yen ($ million), down from a profit of billion yen ($ million).. they expect daiwa to post profit of billion yen ($ million), down slightly from . billion yen ($ million)..