from. sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic). subject. re. the greek authorities deny even the existence of a turkish minority. reply to. sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic). distribution. world. lines. . . in article mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes.. . >a few thousand!!!!!!!!. . yup.. . >yes there are a few thousand left today after years of opression by . >turkey.. . i expect better from you, 'mau'. no, i take that back, i don't. the . treaty on the exchange of the turkish and greek minorities () left . no greek minority in turkiye, except a few thousand greeks in istanbul. . turkiye is no longer an obstacle for 'pan hellenism.' although the material . basis of greek policy is no longer visible, there is a residue, which . seems to unite the pelopenisians, the greeks who came from asia minor, . the greeks who are originally from the islands of the marmara sea. or those who live in the numerous aegean islands. this residue is . also recognizable in the contemporary greek government.. . >as far a greek turkish wars are conserned i find it funny that a . >so informed turk like you forgot to mention the balkan wars .. . not a chance. greece lost in each and every war conducted "solely" . between greece and turkiye. in the morea in , in thessaly in . , and in anatolia in . after the ottoman empire lost . world war i, the british landed in a , greek army in . izmir to exterminate the people of turkiye. are you suffering . from a severe case of amnesia? the tired and defeated turks rose up,. formed a national force under the leadership of mustafa kemal, and. on august , they annihilated the bulk of the greek army.. . >> turkiye . >> is no longer an obstacle for 'pan hellenism.' besides, greece lost . >> in each and every war conducted solely between greece and turkiye. in . >> the morea in , in thessaly in , and in anatolia in . . >> especially the greek defeat, referred to as 'the tragedy of . >> anatolia' by the greeks, had momentous effects on greek mind and . >> behaviour.. . >i find it curious that a historian like you forgot the wars that . >demolished the ottoman empire. .. . i love people who don't read and then spout myths as evidence. where. were greeks in and ? i guess, they were busy with.... . greek efforts to decimate the jewish population of salonica. culminated in and . . >. . >. . [] robert mantran, 'la structure sociale de la communaute juive de. salonqiue a la fin du dix neuvieme siecle', rh no. (), ;. nehama vii, ; joseph nehama (salonica) to aiu (paris) no./,. may (aiu archives i c ); and no., january (aiu. archives i c ), describing daily battles between jewish and greek. children in the streets of salonica. benghiat, director of ecole moise. allatini, salonica, to aiu (paris), no., december (aiu. archives i c ), describing greek attacks on jews, boycotts of jewish. shops and manufacturers, and greek press campaigns leading to blood libel. attacks. cohen, ecole secondaire moise allatini, salonica, to aiu (paris),. no./, december (aiu archives i c ) describes a week of terror. that followed the greek army occupation of salonica in , with the. soldiers pillaging the jewish quarters and destroying jewish synagogues,. accompanied by what he described as an 'explosion of hatred' by local. greek population against local jews and muslims. mizrahi, president of the. aiu at salonica, reported to the aiu (paris), no./, july . (aiu archives i c ) that 'it was not only the irregulars (comitadjis). that massacred, pillaged and burned. the army soldiers, the chief of. police, and the high civil officials also took an active part in the. horrors...', moise tovi (salonica) to aiu (paris) no. ( august ). (aiu archives i c ) describes the greek pillage of the jewish quarter. during the night of august .. . (aiu = alliance israelite universelle, paris.). . serdar argic. . 'we closed the roads and mountain passes that . might serve as ways of escape for the turks . and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'. (ohanus appressian ). 'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists . a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian ). . .