genetic probing of the yeast plasma membrane h(+) atpase.. . the h(+) atpase from saccharomyces cerevisiae has been probed by a random genetic approach that has led to the isolation of primary and secondary site mutations. these h(+) atpase (pma) mutants help define specific functional, as well as interacting, regions of the h(+) atpase. cellular resistance to hygromycin b has been an important selection tool for the isolation of pmal mutants. one prominent hygromycin b resistant mutant, pmal , was found to have a sf mutation near the site of phosphorylation (d) in the catalytic core. this mutation prevents growth in low ph or nh(+) containing medium and induces an acid sensitive vmax for atp hydrolysis, as well as a pronounced insensitivity to vanadate. the prominent cellular and biochemical phenotypes of this strain facilitated a detailed revertant analysis to identify protein structure domains that interact directly or indirectly with the localized region defined by the f mutation. partial revertants were isolated which were resistant to low ph or nh+ but retained hygromycin resistance. second site mutations were found within the first and second cytoplasmic loop domains, as well as in transmembrane segments &amp; . all of the revertant enzymes have a stable vmax but some show changes in the ph optimum for atp hydrolysis; all display vanadate sensitivities ranging between the insensitive f mutant and the fully sensitive wild type enzyme. revertant analyses have also been performed on two other pma mutants which carry the mutations av and gd in transmembrane segments and , respectively. compensating second site mutations to these mutations were identified in transmembrane segments , , &amp; , as well as within the central catalytic domain. these analyses have helped identify interacting protein structure domains that may participate in coupling atp hydrolysis to proton transport. furthermore, they facilitate the construction of structural models to account for these interactions.