defective h(+) atpase of hygromycin b resistant pma mutants fromsaccharomyces cerevisiae.. . mutations in the plasma membrane h(+) atpase gene (pma) of saccharomyces cerevisiae that confer growth resistance to hygromycin b have been shown recently to cause a marked depolarization of whole cell membrane potential (perlin, d. s., brown, c. l., and haber, j. e. () j. biol. chem. , ). in this report, the biochemical and genetic properties of h+ atpases from four prominent hygromycin b resistant pma mutants, pma , pma , pma , and pma , are described. single base pair changes were identified in pma , pma , and pma that resulted in amino acid substitutions of ser phe, gly asp, pro leu, respectively. an a g transition mutation at in the ' untranslated region of the mrna of pma was also found. this mutation creates an out of frame upstream aug initiation codon that apparently reduces normal translation of pma. dna sequence analysis of pma from strain y identified base pair substitutions that resulted in amino acid changes in nonconserved regions when compared to the published sequence for strain sc. plasma membranes of three of the four pma mutants contained normal amounts of h(+) atpase; membranes from pma contained enzyme at % of the wild type level. the kinetics of atp hydrolysis were most strongly altered for enzymes from pma and pma which showed changes in both km and vmax. a striking ph dependence for these parameters was found for enzyme from pma which resulted in a precipitous decline in km and vmax below ph .. atp hydrolysis by enzymes from pma and pma was insensitive to inhibition by vanadate. these enzymes, in contrast to wild type and vanadate sensitive mutant enzymes, were poorly protected from trypsin induced inactivation by mgatp and vanadate or pi alone. these results are pertinent to the mechanism of vanadate induced enzyme inhibition and suggest that ser and pro influence the affinity of the phosphate binding site for pi. all mutant enzymes catalyzed atp induced ph gradient formation following purification and reconstitution into liposomes. finally, these results further demonstrate the usefulness of hygromycin b as a generalized screening tool for isolating diverse plasma membrane atpase mutants.