markets across eastern europe remained mired in an autumn slump this week, with analysts seeing little on the horizon to break the bearish trend.. stock exchanges in warsaw, prague, bratislava, bucharest, zagreb and ljubljana all lost ground on the week. budapest bucked the trend, rising slightly, although it appeared to lose steam by the end of the week.. prague. not even a strong showing by the centre right governing coalition in senate elections at the weekend could break the prague stock exchange out of its current slump, as the px index dipped . points on the week to close on thursday at ... analysts said that while the coalition of prime minister vaclav klaus may feel heartened by the showing which gave him a majority to the czech upper house, which will have little power, investors remain put off by poor market regulation.. "i'm a little sceptical about the possibility that the senate will help bring changes to the market," said pavel sobisek of zivnostenska banka.. "i think there will be a lot of pressure from market participants on the government to do something...but i have not seen any signs of a change in attitude of the coalition with respect to this topic.". investors have long complained that market regulation and legislation in the czech republic is weak, providing little protection for minority shareholders.. warsaw. the warsaw stock exchange stayed virtually flat this week and analysts were divided over the market's direction.. some said the bourse could extend its three week sideways trend as no fresh signals were in sight. "we are still in a horizontal trend and...i see no factors which could help create a clear direction for the market," said mateusz andrzejewski, an analyst at pekao sa brokerage.. others saw the generally positive economic climate as a strong enough impulse that it could help the bourse climb above , points next week.. analysts said a senior central bank official's comment on tuesday about a possible rise in interest rates next year was bringing some uncertainty to the bourse but was unlikely to signficantly hurt prices.. budapest. hungarian shares started off the weekend strongly, boosted by a government decision to hike energy prices, but they ran out of steam by the middle of the week.. oil and gas company mol led the charge, but dealers said its weakening on thursday could be a harbinger.. "mol turned around today (on thursday), that is a warning sign," said new york broker's kalman schuszter. "sellers are stronger now." the bux index closed on thursday at ,., up . percent from monday's open.. bratislava. slovak share prices continued their freefall on the bratislava stock exchange which has lost about percent since the end of august.. the share sax index fell . points on the week to close at . on thursday.. dealers said the silver lining to the bourse's woes may be that prices are becoming so cheap that foreign investors will soon be lured back.. bucharest. scant demand kept volumes modest at both weekly sessions in bucharest, with turnover low and most prices edging down or staying flat.. the unofficial vab index inched down from the previous session by . percent to . points, while the big index eased . percent to ... fertiliser maker azomures sa dominated trading, while newcomer, an oilfield equipment maker, put on a poor show.. zagreb. croatian stocks were mostly lower in dwindling trade and analysts said they could see no end to the bearish period as big buyers continue to shy away from the market because of political developments.. croatia has been shaken by a wave of strikes, and last week zagreb saw its biggest protest in years.. ljubljana. political concerns were also apparent in ljubljana this week, with investors waiting for a new prime minister to be named, probably in the second half of december.. "the market will be uneasy until it is clear who will form the new government," one trader said. the sbi index fell , points from monday's open to close on thursday at ,... although the liberal democrats of current prime minister janez drnovsek were the strongest single party in the general election, winning out of parliamentary seats, they are facing a loose alliance of rightist "spring" parties, who got seats.. close week's change /high /low. nov net pct. cesi ,. . . ,. .. prague . . . . .. warsaw ,. . . ,. ,.. budapest ,. +. +. ,. ,.. bratislava . . . . .. vab index . . . . .. big index . . . . .. ljubljana ,. . . ,. .. all time highs. cesi ,. (sept /); wig ,. (march , ); sbi ,. (june /); px ,. (april /); bux ,. (oct /); sax . (feb/). ($=, lei).