east european markets moved higher across the board this week, with poland and hungary leading the way on foreign buying.. warsaw and budapest both hit year highs, while romania and slovenia also moved strongly higher. bratislava and prague edged up, but both are seen drifting with little upward momentum.. warsaw. the warsaw stock exchange set three consecutive month highs in heavy turnover this week, with post fixing buying on thursday seen pushing them to another high on friday. but analysts said a profit taking correction was likely next week.. "after today's session i believe there might be more growth tomorrow, but i think next week investors will start taking profits after such a surge," maciej matusiak, an analyst at pko bp brokerage, said on thursday.. the bourse has risen percent since december .. analysts expected , points to privide strong support for the wig index next week. some said the correction was likely to be brief and the market could return to its uptrend later, possibly on growing foreign interest in polish stocks which was luring new investors.. budapest. the budapest bourse continued its bull run this week, setting successive record highs in the first three sessions, although profit taking on thursday trimmed earlier gains.. "the fact that the market is coming a little lower is to be regarded as a normal reaction to serious price rises," one trader said.. on thursday the bux index, which has risen some percent this year, closed at ,. points, up . on the week.. the trader said some foreign investors might reduce their presence on the hungarian market but there were no signs of them leaving it completely.. "key foreign investors are reducing their exposure on the market but they aren't turning away from it," he said.. prague. the prague stock exchange edged up this week in moderate trading. analysts said investors have been heartened by recent talk of strengthening market oversight but it may take several months before strong flows of money return.. the px index closed on thursday at ., up . points, or . percent, on the week. "we're still seeing a lot of interest in funds, but some of the other major shares are flat," said alex angell of wood and company.. several funds have attracted heavy investor interest after declaring they would transform their closed ended unit trusts into open ended funds, making it possible that the shares would rise much closer to their net asset value.. the finance ministry is still creating guidelines for the funds to open, but at least one fund manager, harvard, has said it plans to begin buying units from current holders in anticipation that it would receive approval to transform.. bratislava. the bratislava stock exchange (bse) edged higher in a quiet week, and brokers said the market was stabilising after a slow start to the year.. but they said the growth was still fragile due to generally weak investor interest. "there is constant demand for only a few issues, which could stop virtually any time," said peter lachkovic of slovenska sporitelna.. the share sax index rose mainly on gains to oil refiner slovnaft, closing at . points on thursday, up . from monday's open at ... bucharest. the bulk of bucharest prices jogged higher this week as bullish sentiment which has gripped the market since the start of the year pushed stocks higher for the sixth consecutive session on thursday, sending the two indices to year highs.. analysts said the bull run has been fuelled by higher inflation and a depreciating leu.. ljubljana. slovenian shares jumped seven percent this week, pushed up by foreign buying. the share sbi index jumped . points to ,... trader kovinotehna was the top gainer, rising . percent, while ordinary shares of hipotekarna banka brezice were the leading decliner, falling . percent.. close week's change / high / low. jan net pct. cesi ,. +. +. ,. .. warsaw ,. +. +. ,. ,.. budapest ,. +. ,. ,.. prague . +. +. . .. bratislava . +. +. . .. bucharest. vab index . +. +. . .. big index . +. +. . .. ljubljana ,. +. +. ,. .. all time high. cesi ,. (jan /); bux ,.. (jan /); wig ,. (march /); px ,. (april. /); sbi ,. (june /); sax . (february/)..