china's four oldest special economic zones grew almost twice as fast as the rest of china last year, although foreign investment slowed in a sign their economies remained structurally weak, officials said on monday.. officials of the state council's special economic zones (sez) office attributed the slowdown in foreign investment in the coastal boomtowns partly to a government push to attract funds to underdeveloped western and central regions.. the zones had shifted their policy towards attracting larger and more high technology investment and were trying to move away from their previous focus on smaller, more labour intensive projects, one official said in a telephone interview.. the economies of china's zones in shenzhen, which borders hong kong, in zhuhai and shantou in southern guangdong province and in xiamen in eastern fujian province posted average gross domestic product (gdp) growth of . percent in , the china business times said.. that compared with . percent nationwide.. their total gdp was . billion yuan ($. billion), it said. the gdp of shenzhen alone was billion yuan, accounting for more than half the total, while growth in the boomtown across the border from hong kong was . percent.. fastest growing of the four was xiamen, which posted a sizzling . percent, while the slowest was zhuhai with growth of . percent.. the special economic zones, a brainchild of paramount leader deng xiaoping and set up in the early s to open china's doors to the west, had suffered because the technological level of their industry was not high, the official of the sez office said.. "of the projects they are able to attract, high technology ones account for a low proportion," he said. "most are still labour intensive processing projects.". the average industrial output growth of the four was . percent in , with total output value of . billion yuan. shenzhen's industrial output was valued at . billion, with xiamen in second place followed by zhuhai and shantou.. fastest growth of . percent was registered by xiamen, a target for investment from taiwan. shantou was in last place, growing by . percent.. in foreign trade, the total trade of the four zones was $. billion, showing a . percent increase from .. shenzhen accounted for more than half of the total, but showed the slowest growth rate of just . percent. zhuhai recorded the smallest amount of trade at $. billion but the fastest growth of . percent.. however, foreign investment showed negative growth in the four zones both new contracts signed and investment amount.. the sez official attributed the slowdown to a better understanding of china among foreign investors, which meant that while the contracts were fewer in number, they were more likely to result in actual inflows of investment.. "more contracts that are signed actually go ahead," he said.. contracts signed totalled , in , or . percent negative growth, while their value was $. billion, or . percent negative growth.. shenzhen showed the sharpest drop, with the number of new contracts falling . percent and value slashed . percent.. however, actual foreign investment rose in all four zones with shenzhen showing the biggest growth of . percent and xiamen the smallest at . percent.. ($.=. yuan). beijing newsroom () .