hainan airlines plans to buy airliners from boeing corp in the next two years in a major fleet expansion to be funded by bonds, loans and china's first public airline share issue, company officials said.. the regional airline, which is based in the southern tropical island province of hainan, had already agreed on a basic contract with the u.s. planemaker for four s and three s, said airline chairman and president chen feng.. hainan airlines was also waiting for approval from china's aviation authorities to buy three boeing aircraft for around $ million each, chen told reuters in an interview in the provincial capital, haikou.. delivery of both the boeing s and s was expected to begin in , when hainan airlines also planned to bring into operation seven new metro light aircraft from u.s. manufacturer fairchild aircraft inc, company officials said.. "next year we plan to take about aircraft," chen said. "it's big money... minimum $ million.". the airline, which currently operates nine boeing s and a handful of turboprops and executive jets, would take out options on a further three s, said chief economist li bing.. "we have hired a lot of new pilots," li said.. part of the cost of the new aircraft would be covered by the airline's planned issue of about million foreign currency b shares to be listed on the shanghai bourse in the first quarter of this year, company officials said.. the issue, originally scheduled for last year, is expected to make hainan the first airline to list publicly on one of china's two domestic exchanges.. the airline hoped to list two million domestic currency a shares in shanghai shortly after issuing the dollar denominated b shares, raising at least $ million, chen said.. "the money we get for the shares we will certainly use for fleet expansion," said economist li, adding that proceeds would also be directed toward training and recruitment and would be far from enough to cover major aircraft purchases.. the airline planned to issue $ million in bonds in the united states to help to finance fleet expansion and expected financial support from the u.s. export import bank, said chen.. li said the airline, which is percent owned by american aviation investment, a fund partially controlled by u.s. financier george soros, was waiting for approval from china's aviation authorities before signing the deal.. company officials said the turbulent diplomatic relationship between washington and beijing could sometimes make buying u.s. jets a sensitive political issue, but such considerations were not expected to delay approval of the deal.. sino u.s. ties have warmed sharply in recent months, bolstered by high level contacts and a january visit by u.s. congressmen that u.s. diplomats said helped to hasten the sale this month of two boeing s to flagship carrier air china.. that deal was followed on monday by boeing's announcement of a $ million order for two s from china's yunnan airlines.. hainan airlines officials said they had seriously considered buying from boeing's european arch rival airbus industrie but had been put off by the training and technical costs of a switch from the u.s. manufacturer..