a monster shakeup of canada's biggest city, toronto, has sparked a citizens' revolt against ontario's ruling conservatives and raised eyebrows among those do business in the country's financial capital.. this clean, peaceful city sometimes dubbed "new york run by the swiss" has recently become a battleground in the so called "common sense revolution" initiated by ontario's conservative premier mike harris.. promising leaner, cheaper government, harris wants to merge toronto and six neighbouring municipalities into a single "megacity" of . million people. the new city would hold about eight percent of canada's million people and dwarf all but three of canada's provinces.. harris also plans a fundamental shift in how public services everything from education to welfare are delivered and paid for.. opponents fear the municipal reform blitz will drive up taxes and lead to the kind of urban decay witnessed in many cities in the united states, just across the border.. the threat of such wrenching change being rammed through without a binding plebiscite has outraged citizens and prompted accusations of tyranny and fascism.. "government is not elected for the politicians. it is elected by the people for the people," toronto mayor barbara hall told a crowd after residents in the seven affected areas voted three to one against a merger in a referendum last week.. the vote was not binding on ontario's government, which has vowed to press ahead with its plan.. government is adamant. the referendum capped a campaign which saw an ontario cabinet minister likened to adolf hitler, bomb threats against a polling firm, and thousands of protesters marching in the streets in a re enactment of a civic rebellion in .. harris has held firm. "i don't think we can withdraw the need for change," he said, adding that there may be amendments when the legislation is introduced.. the "megacity" revolt has grabbed headlines across the country and overseas, even prompting some foreign consulates to keep a wary eye on the political wrangling.. "there is some interest, but it's purely because it has appeared in the (british) papers," said terry curran, the british consul in toronto.. meanwhile, high profile canadian business leaders, politicians and artists have joined to oppose the merger plan.. they include film director norman jewison, molson chief executive norman seagram, and writer margaret atwood who compared the megacity's architects to the three stooges.. the "no" side captured percent of the votes in the referendum, but the process was flawed and turnout was low.. under draft legislation, known as bill , the seven city halls and politicians who now govern the greater toronto area will shrink to one elected mayor and councillors.. the government also plans to overhaul property taxes, eliminate more than half of the province's school boards, seize control of education funding and download a bigger share of social programme costs onto the municipalities.. tax fears. harris has said the reforms are revenue neutral, but critics say municipalities may be forced to raise taxes.. they fear welfare rolls could soar and one of the hardest hit communities would be toronto, which has a heavier welfare caseload and nearly half of the province's social housing.. "you're doing something that is very volatile and on a tax base which has very little flexibility," said george fierheller, president of toronto's board of trade.. more than percent of the board's members favour reducing the size of government through a merger but nearly half worry about dumping such heavy responsibilities onto municipalities.. "as a torontonian and a businessman responsible for a large company, i'm wary of abrupt change without making sure you've thought it through," said peter godsoe, chairman of canada's fourth largest bank, bank of nova scotia.. the influential debt rating agency, moody's investors service, has warned "the very nature and scale of the reforms...create new challenges that could affect the credit quality of some municipalities.". downloading feature of government at all levels. the downloading trend has been a feature of government at all levels in canada as they struggle with budget deficits.. canada's ruling liberal party in ottawa has dumped responsibility for public services on the provinces in recent federal budgets. now the cash strapped provinces are the doing the same to municipalities.. the autonomy of municipalities is severely restricted. they have the power to tax and legislate, but their powers are drawn from provincial law which can be changed by a majority vote in the legislature.. ontario is in a tougher bind than most. faced with a huge c$ ($.) billion deficit when they came to power in , the conservatives slashed spending and cut the deficit to c$. billion in /, while easing some taxes.. the harris revolution has kept the government high in opinion polls, but public support has slipped recently, with backing for the conservatives down to percent in metro toronto, compared to percent for the opposition liberals.. "my sense is they cannot ignore the referendum results," said university of toronto political scientist graham white. "now that doesn't mean they will abandon the bill or even change it in a substantive way. there is not a lot of room for tinkering." ($ = . canadian dollars).