rupert murdoch's news corp ltd is expected to report on thursday a stagnant net profit for the year to june , held back by soaring newsprint costs and losses from its burgeoning star tv operations, analysts said.. the median forecast in bzw's barceps broker survey is for a a$. billion net profit before abnormals for the year, a virtual replica of the a$. billion profit posted in /.. analysts said news may even struggle to match last year's result, particularly given its lower than expected third quarter result. . "it's got to be a reasonably strong last quarter to match that (/) figure," said abn amro hoare govett media analyst john bell.. "i doubt there'll be many surprises on the upside," he said.. news posted a a$ million net profit before abnormals in the third quarter, below expectations of about a$ million and taking profits for the first nine months of the year to a$ million.. the result is expected around . a.m. australian time on thursday ( gmt wednesday). . analysts said news' / profits had been restrained generally by the higher paper costs, a u.k. cover price war and continued losses from its star tv operation in hong kong.. "people will look at newspapers because that will reflect higher newsprint prices and the impact of the newspaper price war," said one melbourne media analyst.. margins on news' british newspapers were seen pressured in the final few months of the year by cover price discounts ahead of the olympics.. "there was a little bit of renewed competition on the monday cover prices pre olympics," bell said. . "margins may have slipped a little bit in the last few months of the year," he said.. star tv was seen pumping out another us$ million to us$ million of losses for the year as it establishes itself in the potentially lucrative asian satellite television markets.. "i would expect a full year loss of us$ million given what we've been told so far and i've seen nothing to change that," the melbourne analyst said.. "i would see it somewhere in excess of of us$ million," bell said. . continued strong earnings from u.s. television and films are seen offsetting somewhat the newsprint and star tv losses.. looking ahead however, analysts are confident news' profits can start growing again in /, boosted by potentially lower newsprint prices and an earnings surge from the hit u.s. special effects movie, "independence day".. "'independence day' could add up to us$ million to the bottom line," said bell, who forecast net profit rising to a$. billion in /. . "the / result will show some clear profit growth as much as anything because of paper prices and 'independence day'," the melbourne analyst said, who forecast a a$. billion net profit.. news' share price was down one cent at a$. at . p.m. ( gmt).. sydney newsroom .