a percent rise in fee and other non interest income boosted westpac banking corp ltd to a surprisingly strong first half profit result on wednesday, more than offsetting the effect of a squeeze on interest margins.. westpac announced a net profit of a$ million for the six months to march , up from a$ million in the same period a year earlier. . analysts said this was about a$ million to a$ million above their expectations, but had not shocked those in the market who had pushed westpac's share price higher in recent weeks in anticipation of very strong result.. "that's why the stock hasn't bounced as much as you'd expect it to," macquarie equities banking analyst graham maloney said.. westpac's shares were down five cents at a$. at . p.m. ( gmt), having earlier jumped to a a$. high. . the profit jump was due largely to non interest income rising to a$ million from a$ million, underpinned by rising account fees and some profits from the sale of property and closed branches.. the boost from fees more than offset sluggish growth in interest income as westpac, like australia's other major banks, battled a basis point squeeze in home lending margins.. westpac's group net interest margin fell to . percent in the six months to march from . percent in the six months to september. . non bank competitors funded by mortgage origination have snared more than percent of the home mortgage market in the past three years, forcing banks to cut their home loan margins by about basis points to about to basis points.. "features of the first half financial results were non interest expense control, continued improvement in asset quality, improved staff productivity, and higher non interest income reflecting. growth in commissions and fees, higher financial markets income and benefits from the sale of equity investments," westpac managing director bob joss said in a statement. . "these results were achieved against a background of reduced interest margins and continued investments in strategic capabilities designed to enhance future prospects," joss said.. westpac's net interest income fell to a$. billion in the six months ended march from a$. billion in the six months to september last year, but was up on the a$. billion in the year ago period.. income from fees and commissions rose to a$ million from a$ million in the year ago first half.. other income, which included the sale of equity investments, rose to a$ million from a$ million a year earlier. . westpac also announced it planned to raise up to a$ million through a preference share issue after its merger with bank of melbourne ltd.. westpac said it would issue up to million non cumulative converting preference share at an issue price of a$ each. the money raised would be used to fund the cash component under the bank of melbourne merger scheme, it said.. sydney newsroom .