international business machines corp gave its stock a cosmetic boost with a two for one split tuesday, but the luster it gave the stock may prove fleeting unless ibm can revive core business growth.. "the company's management must show how they can deliver sustained growth again before people will say 'ibm is healed,'" nomura securities analyst daniel ries said.. nonetheless, ibm surged to , up / points, reversing a point slide the stock has endured in the past week since signs of slower growth emerged in its fourth quarter results. . analysts and traders said the timing of the split coincided with an analyst upgrade by salomon brothers and took advantage of what many investors considered the stock's oversold condition after the recent sell off.. "ibm did the right thing. they split the stock right on top of solly's upgrade," said one trader, referring to salomon analyst john jones' move to upgrade ibm stock to strong buy.. "people were looking for an entry point they found it," he said. . ibm's more than seven point gain contributed over points to the dow's point rise tuesday afternoon, due to the stock's heavy weighting in calculating the stock index.. while the stock split was largely seen as numerical window dressing doubling the number of shares traded while halving the price into the $s of each post split share the split has subtle psychological implications for investors.. besides the initial boost that typically accompanies share splits, the move may reduce investors' focus on the psychologically important level of . . that's ibm's historic high share price, reached in , and a level the computer maker's shares had flirted near, but never quite reached, prior to last week's selloff.. the higher share activity should help dramatize daily movements in the stock and lift total volumes to the lofty levels seen by intel corp and microsoft corp, which can often top million shares traded.. one tangible benefit of the split may be to heighten retail investor interest in the stock. by cutting the investment necessary to buy a "round lot" of shares, the stock may appear more affordable to smaller investors. . but securities analysts said the stock split move does nothing to stoke the main engine for further stock price gains core business growth.. "the significant move upward in the second half of was based on the people becoming convinced that ibm could sustain growth of eight to percent," nomura's ries said.. ibm shares gained more than points in the second half of , reaching as high as in december.. but disappointing growth in fourth quarter hardware sales and continued economic sluggishness in european markets led wall street to slash ratings.. the company had told analysts that hardware sales grew only two percent during the final quarter of .. "not a big deal," said soundview financial analyst gary helmig of the share split, noting that the principal effect should be to double the daily share volume of ibm, which previously has averaged about four five million shares a day.. "there's no real reason for them to do this, but it does tend to make the stock go up," he said.. wall street bureau, .