lucent technologies inc expects its lagging consumer products unit the smallest of four product divsions to show substantial profit gains in and a return to revenue growth by the december quarter.. "we expect a substantial improvement in profitablity this year (for the unit) mainly through cost cutting," chief financial officer don peterson peterson "and positive revenue growth" in the december quarter, due to new products. earlier thursday, lucent had said consumer product revenues fell percent in the second quarter ended in march. . consumer products comprised a small fraction of total march quarter revenues of $. billion. it was the only lucent unit not to see double digit growth in the quarter.. the division's revenues fell to $ million in the march quarter due to the impact on sales resulting from the closing in of hundreds of phone center stores, the streamlining of the product line and reduced revenue from phone rentals.. revenues from lucent's carrier network systems division jumped . percent to $. billion, while the business communications unit rose . percent to $. billion and semiconductor revenues gained . percent to $ million. . in addition, peterson told reuters the company's closely watched backlog of customer equipment orders remained "in the $ billion range, or about the same level it was in the fiscal first quarter ended in december .". "the backlog was about the same level that we talked about in the prior quarter's conference call," peterson said.. he said the backlog was replenished by about $ million in new wireless equipment orders in taiwan, brazil, indonesia, the philippines and mexico balancing out the revenue recognized from prior equipment contracts during the quarter. . the lucent executive said he expected the company to maintain its gross profit margin as a percentage of revenues at around to percent for the fiscal year ending in september.. for the march quarter, lucent reported an overall gross margin of . percent, down from the . percent reported in the seasonally strong volume december quarter but up from the . percent margin in the year ago march quarter.. "i don't see margin expansion as a major opportunity, but i do think we can hold onto it if we run the business right," he said of plans to hold margins at percent in fiscal . . peterson said international revenues increased percent over the year ago quarter to $. billion from $. billion.. because most large equipment contracts are transacted in u.s. dollars, he said the impact of currency translation on lucent results was immaterial during the latest quarter and was expected to have minimal impact for the rest of the year.. speaking of plans to pump up consumer product revenues, he said the company plans to introduce a slew of new products including wireless, cordless and corded phones and answering machines to replace older models. . after a round of profit taking in the morning that sent lucent shares down / of a point, the stock recovered in mid afternoon trading to /, up / of a point on the day.. (( new york newsdesk, )).