british insurance group norwich union said on tuesday it will float on the london stock exchange on june .. the company, britain's third largest life insurer, expects to allocate around . billion free shares to . million qualifying members as part of its plan to drop its mutual status and become a public limited company.. norwich also hopes to raise . billion pounds ($. billion) of fresh capital through an offer of new shares. existing members will be able to buy the shares at a discount, the size of which will be announced on may .. last month norwich members voted overwhelmingly in favour of its conversion proposals, the first by a mutually owned british insurer.. the flotation will value it at around five billion pounds, ranking it among the country's largest companies.. norwich members wishing to participate in the public offering will have to apply for a minimum of pounds worth of shares. there will be an upper ceiling on applications by members of , pounds.. non members, who will not receive any discounts, will have to apply for at least , pounds worth of shares and those registering with the norwich will be sent a mini prospectus from may .. around . billion pounds of the money raised will go into the existing with profits fund to enable the company to keep up benefits to policyholders.. the balance, less the million pound cost of the flotation, will be used for corporate purposes.. around . million "with profit" members will net an average of pounds worth of free shares under the plans. they will receive a minimum of shares with additional shares based on the value and duration of their policies as at october , .. another one million "non profit" policyholders will receive a fixed allocation of shares worth between and pounds.. norwich sent british and irish members a booklet today, providing information on how to buy shares at a discount.. application forms and a mini prospectus will be sent to members along with details of the size of the discount on may .. a june deadline has been set for the return of the forms and payment ahead of the start of trading in the shares on june .. norwich said it was setting up a single company personal equity plan (pep) for which there will be no initial charge. for plans opened within days of flotation, the first year's management fee will be waived. ($ = . british pounds).