british composite insurer commercial union plc posted a strong rise in first quarter profits on wednesday, helped by a sharp fall in u.s. weather claims.. chief executive john carter described the company's prospects as "excellent" but the shares trimmed / pence to pence after the figures, which were in the middle of analysts' forecast range.. pre tax operating profits rose to million pounds ($. million), up from million pounds last year.. excluding the negative impact of sterling, profits were up percent. on the same basis profits and new business sales at the group's worldwide life business rose percent.. net assets per ordinary share were up pence over the quarter to pence.. echoing comments made by general accident which reported on tuesday, commercial union said the rating environment remained competitive in uk general insurance though there was evidence of firming in certain classes of business.. a fall in weather losses helped u.s. results and france and australia also saw increases in profits.. weather claims in the u.s. fell million pounds over the period to million pounds as a result of the milder winter.. finance director peter foster dismissed recent concerns about exposure to possible u.s. tobacco related insurance claims.. "commercial union has very limited exposure to tobacco. we believe our policies have clear exclusion clauses and our exposure is not significant," foster told reuters.. in the uk, weather costs were broadly flat.. but the incidence of subsidence, a result of the dry start to the year, rose over the quarter. claims were up percent while the cost increased to million pounds from seven million pounds in the first quarter last year.. general insurance profits rose to million pounds, up three million pounds over but continuing competition in the uk reduced general insurance profits there.. "the uk rating environment remains competitive though there is evidence of rates trying to move upwards particularly in motor classes," foster said.. "other rates are relatively stable on the personal lines side. on commercial lines the market remains competitive but the rate of reduction being seen has actually declined.". in the u.s. general insurance also remained competitive with overall average rate increases broadly in line with inflation.. france was seeing rises in certain classes but areas such as motor cover were becoming more difficult, said foster.. asked about disappointing first quarter new sales in france where new single premium business fell percent, foster said he was confident about the quality of the business and the prospects for the future.. french first quarter figures had been very strong and a rise in interest rates and reorganisation of the sales force had not helped comparisons, he said.. with the acquisition of percent of sev, a french life assurer in april, life operations now account for around percent of total group premium income.. this is likely to continue to rise in the future, said foster.. "life business tends to grow at a faster rate than general and we expect that to continue in the future. a lot of the growth will be organic. we can achieve a pretty high level of organic growth but if a suitable opportunity arose we would certainly consider it," he said.. life profits over the quarter increased to million pounds from million pounds last year, with strong performances from the uk, the netherlands and france.. the company had an open mind about a life acquisition, said foster, but it was not actively seeking them.. ($ = . british pounds).