lloyd's of london announced on tuesday it is to give names more time to meet planned increases in the capital they must put up to support their underwriting activities.. lloyd's has also dropped proposals to prevent names the traditional backers of the insurance market using their own homes as collateral for underwriting.. the planned capital increases are part of a package of measures designed to strengthen the financial security that underpins lloyd's and to provide a level playing field between names and corporate members.. the longer transition period for the changes announced today may go some way to meeting the concerns of names' representatives who had called for more time to be given to meet the new capital requirements.. names fear they are gradually being forced out of the market in favour of corporate capital first introduced in , a charge repeatedly denied by the lloyd's hierachy.. names are to be given three years before they have to meet the new requirements of showing evidence of assets amounting to percent of the premiums they underwrite.. in a lloyd's working party report last month a two year transition period was proposed but, after consultations, that has been extended from to the year .. a phased increase in names' minimum level of means to , pounds ($,) from the current level of , pounds has also been increased from two to five years and will come into force in .. this , pounds will be made up of funds held at lloyd's and evidence of "other personal wealth" (opw).. proposals to double the opw requirements for and beyond have been dropped in favour of a slightly higher level of funds which must be held at lloyd's.. at present names must put up between and percent of the total business they back compared with percent for corporate members.. by , names will have to hold percent of premium capacity at lloyd's with opw making up a further percent, bringing them into line with corporate members.. the use of "principal private residences" (pprs) names' own homes as collateral for members' underwriting are to be allowed to continue but only for those in existence at the end of .. no new ppr backed guarantees may be introduced in the future nor existing one increased.. risk assessment is to be extended to all members from onward and may require higher capital levels for members with greater risk exposure.. this is expected to affect less than percent of individual members.. the association of lloyd's members (alm), which represents names' interests, broadly welcomed today's proposals, saying it was essential that all names should demonstrate their ability to meet any losses they incurred.. lloyd's proposals coincided with the publication of an independent report commissioned by the market interests group an alliance of the alm, member agents and lloyd's brokers.. it acknowledged that reform in particular of the annual venture and management of names' based capital was important, but said that creating an environment that encouraged their disappearance would be a significant mistake.. earlier on friday a leading figure in lloyd's called for the capital structure of the market to be simplified.. robert hiscox, chairman of insurance group hiscox plc described the annual venture where syndicates are reformed anew every year as an "anachronistic absurdity" and said the current mixture of unlimited and limited members was too expensive to maintain. ($ = . british pounds).