wickes plc, the british do it yourself retailer whose former bosses are being investigated for fraud, warned on thursday it faced receivership unless investors backed its financial restructuring including a million pound ($. million) rights issue.. the recent discovery of accounting irregularities dating back five years forced the group to announce a major refinancing, including a cash call and the possible sale of its continental business.. wickes chairman michael von brentano told shareholders that if investors voted against the plans at the extraordinary general meeting on january "it would be likely that the company would be placed in receivership.". the rights issue is part of a shake up which includes a capital reduction of million pounds and new banking facilities of million pounds. the refinancing aims to eliminate the deficit on the firm's profit and loss account.. the troubled company said in a statement. "the directors believe that the group is now in a position where, if the proposals and proposed banking arrangements are implemented, it can build on its market position, return to profitability and deliver a successful "new wickes.". wickes accounting debacle, which was uncovered in june and triggered a share suspension, led to a major overstatement of profits, forcing the group to restate results. revised accounts showed a loss before tax of . million pounds, . million more than originally reported.. wickes said it expected to make a loss before tax in of not more than million pounds, with losses of . million pounds reported for the nine months to september .. it will not pay an interim dividend in or , but may pay a final dividend in and an interim for .. under the cash call itself, ,, new shares will be offered at pence per new share with one new share for every old shares. the rights issue proceeds will be used to cut group debt.. the chairman said the trading outlook for the group was improving with cumulative like for like sales growth of . percent over .. he said the investigation into former wickes bosses by the police and serious fraud office (sfo) was not expected to result in any liability for the group.. the newly appointed chairman blamed the accounting bombshell on "deliberate misrepresentation" in accounting procedures, blaming "serious mismanagement" in group operations.. von brentano has pledged to clean up accounting procedures and has installed a new team to replace the old guard which has resigned, including former chairman and chief executive henry sweetbaum.. the sfo has already indicated that it will be interviewing all the former senior executives of wickes as part of its investigation. no charges or arrests have been made to date.. ($=. pound).