tomkins plc, the british baking to engineering combine, reported a sharp surge in half year profits on monday but snuffed out hopes of a share buyback this year by flagging possible acquisitions instead.. pretax profits for the six months to november rose percent to . million pounds ($ million). the dividend rose to . pence from . pence the preceding year.. executive chairman gregory hutchings said the results marked "another period of outperformance for tomkins" and forecast the the shares should continue to outperform the sector.. hutchings ruled out the possibility of returning the company's million pound cash pile to shareholders this year, saying in an interview. "we see sufficient (acquisition) opportunities to hold onto our cash for the time being.". hutchings said the group was likely to make a number of smaller buys. "it won't be one major deal, but it could be worth up to million pounds," he said.. rumours of a buyback in have helped push tomkins shares ahead in recent weeks. its shares on monday reversed early gains, however, and were down four at /p by gmt.. "the numbers were at the top end of what people were looking for and we've seen some early interest," one market maker said. analysts had expected profits of around million pounds.. the outlook was also seen as promising.. "prospects for the second half look encouraging, with the majority of our operations having healthy order books and satisfactory market conditions," hutchings said.. he said tomkins was delighted with its purchase last year of u.s. automotive and industrial product firm gates corp for $. billion.. gates contributed . million in sales and million in profit in its first weeks under tomkins control.. a divisional breakdown of the tompkins figures showed fluid controls had sales of . million versus . million pounds, with profits of million versus . million.. industry services saw sales rise to million from million, with profits of . million versus . million. professional garden and leisure products saw sales of million versus million and profits down to . million from . million.. industrial products sales rose to . million from . million, with profits of . million versus . million.. milling and baking, which includes the hovis bread brand, saw sales up to . million versus . million, with profits at . million versus . million.. food products, including bisto gravy and robertson's jam range, saw sales up to . million from . million, with profits at . million versus . million.. excluding currency effects, organic growth in group operating profit was up more than percent on sales, which in turn rose by seven percent.. unlike other major export groups, tomkins has so far been left unscathed by the pound powering ahead against the dollar and mark.. against the dollar, tomkins said it was locked at $. to the pound for the rest of the year. the amount of mark denominated business was minimal, it said.. on market conditions, tomkins said the u.s. was seen remaining firm. britain was described as mixed, while the french market was expected to continue to suffer due to economic problems. ($=. pound).