selling motorcycles used to be a joy ride for the giant, military founded china jialing industrial co ltd, but then it ran into real market competition and growth slowed down sharply.. "up until , we sold as much as we produced," said tian min, deputy director of financial affairs at the shanghai listed firm, in which the chinese government has a percent stake.. but jialing, china's biggest motorcycle manufacturer and a former munitions manufacturer that began making civilian products in , saw rival manufacturers mushroom across china in and to cash in on its market.. cutthroat competition slashed prices and profits and swelled stockpiles last year.. "in , we could not sell what we produced," tian said in an interview at jialing's headquarters in china's wartime capital of chongqing in southwestern sichuan province.. jialing's sales plunged to . billion yuan ($. million) in from . billion yuan in . after tax profits tumbled to million yuan in from million yuan in .. "sales in and were good and many seeing this jumped aboard," tian said.. china has about motorcycle plants with total annual production capacity of million units, but only make more than , a year.. china is the world's largest motorcycle maker, churning out . million units in , but selling only . million.. vice premier zhu rongji has called for moves to curb blind investment in industries that appear profitable.. blind investment is being repeated in many sectors, such as colour televisions, washing machines and refrigerators. production has outstripped demand, leading to overheated competition, price wars and mounting losses among state firms.. adding to the problems of motorcycle manufacturers, some regional governments, alarmed at traffic congestion and air pollution, have discouraged motorcycle purchases by curbing the issue of licence plates.. tight monetary policy to blame. tian also blamed the company's woes on the government's tight monetary policy to rein in galloping inflation.. "the motorcycle market shrank...because people have less money...and less buying power," he said.. tight monetary policy has also resulted in triangular debt, or debt owed among state owned firms, and cash flow problems.. "debts owed to each other are very serious...we can't get our money back for motorcycles sold," tian said.. jialing's collectibles soared to million yuan in .. the company has formed debt collection squads and aims to reduce collectibles to million yuan by end . collectibles were virtually non existent in .. struggling to remain number one. the climb to the top is hard. staying on top is even harder.. a price war has forced jialing to slash prices by an average of percent in , tian said. the price cut was expected to reduce sales by million yuan a year.. sales staff would receive commissions linked to performance instead of a fixed salary to try to increase sales, he said.. jialing will curb waste and cut stockpiles, now , ,. it is inviting tenders to force competition among parts suppliers and expects to save million yuan in .. its motorcycle engines are produced at a joint venture plant with japan's honda motor co ltd.. sales were forecast to hit . billion yuan in , while profits would be "no lower" than in , tian said.. jialing would produce . million motorcycles in from . million in . it has capacity for . million.. its output of . million motorcycles accounted for percent of the national total of . million. jialing's output was forecast to hit two million in the year .. ambitions rise beyond motorcycles. jialing has ambitions to do more than produce motorcycles.. it has applied to issue h shares in hong kong to raise funds to expand into car production, financing and pharmaceuticals.. the company wants to set up a non bank financial institution to finance motorcycle sales, tian said.. to meet the challenges of china's fledgling market economy, jialing, like many state enterprises, must tackle overstaffing and the burden of cradle to grave welfare for its employees.. jialing plans to lay off about one percent of its , employees in , with the accumulated figure hitting , in the year , tian said.. "we're not like capitalist countries...we can't just abandon them," tian said. "we have to help them to find new jobs...or it'll bring problems to our social order and stability.". ($ = . yuan).