a canadian exploration company's claim to have made the biggest gold find this century were cast into doubt on wednesday when its mining partner freeport mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. ( ) said tests of the indonesian deposit showed insignificant amounts of gold.. calgary, alberta based bre x minerals ltd. admitted that the test samples of the deposit on the busang gold property, deep in the jungles of borneo, may have been overstated.. bre x chief executive david walsh, who has made millions from the discovery and now lives in the bahamas, said in a statement that "there appears to be a strong possibility that the potential gold resources on the busang project in east kalimantan, indonesia have been overstated because of invalid samples and assaying of those samples.". freeport said in a statement that analyses of its own drilling results so far "indicate insignificant amounts of gold.". the news caused pandemonium on the toronto stock exchange, where bre x has been the hottest story for months. traders said the share price, which was last quoted at c$., could collapse to c$. the stock was halted in toronto until further notice, the exchange said.. bre x had issued confirmed estimates that the busang deposit held at least million ounces of gold, worth about $ billion at current gold prices.. at that level busang would be the most significant gold find since the discovery of the witwatersrand goldfields in south africa the late s.. bre x officials had even asserted that busang deposit could contain as much as million ounces.. bre x shares, which had traded at an all time high of c$. after a for stock split, sank last week after an indonesian newspaper report quoted unnamed sources as saying new orleans based freeport, which holds per cent of the busang deposit, had doubts about the size and viability of the deposit. the rumors were fanned to a fever pitch by the mysterious. death, billed as a suicide, of bre x's chief geologist michael de guzman, who fell to his death from a helicopter en route to the busang site last wednesday.. bre x said de guzman was depressed because he was suffering from a serious illness.. the bre x board assured shareholders on monday that it had "absolute confidence in the integrity and accuracy of assay results and resource calculations.". traders have described the complex bre x saga as a "soap opera" and are wondering who or what to believe.. "i've concluded the only person who could ever make a movie out of this is alfred hitchcock. it's become so bizarre that people have lost any tolerance for staying in," goepel shields analyst rick cohen said last week..