canadian gold miner william resources inc said on tuesday it expects to "easily achieve" its goal of over , ounces of gold in and it has the financial resources to ride out a weak gold market.. in its outlook for , the toronto based company said early tests of its ballarat east project in australia are promising, but its plans for ruster's roost are on hold.. william also gave a favorable update of its operations in scandinavia and brazil, but said its disappointing mexican project is up for sale.. "we had stated that in we would do over , ounces at a cash cost under us$ an ounce. we feel that we are going to easily achieve that goal," bharti told analysts during a conference call on tuesday.. gold production in was an annualized , ounces of gold with an average cash cost of us$ per ounce. william resources made three acquisitions last year which pushed it into the ranks of intermediate gold producers.. the bjorkdal mine in sweden, acquired in december , is expected to exceed , ounces in at a cash cost of us$ per ounce.. in brazil, the jacobina project is forecast this year at , ounces of gold at a cash cost of us$ per ounce.. bharti said the current downturn in gold prices and depressed stock prices due to the bre x minerals ltd controversy has undermined investor confidence.. the toronto stock exchange's gold index was off points on tuesday as comex gold futures sank over us$ an ounce.. "we've got gold at us$ (an ounce) this morning. stocks with the bre x issue are really struggling. there's a huge malaise in the gold market where people are wondering if gold is a good investment," bharti said.. but william resources is in good shape with percent of its gold hedged at over us$ per ounce, he said.. bharti added that cash flow from operations of us$ million in gives the company the enough flexibility "if this market gets any worse.". he said the company could also defer some capital spending. about us$ million of william's us$ million capital budget in is discretionary.. looking at individual projects, bharti said bulk testing at the ballarat east gold project in australia should be completed by the end of this month.. "i can say the results to date...we're finding some very exciting nuggets in ballarat that certainly we had not expected," bharti said.. the outlook was less favorable for ruster's roost where a feasibility study indicated the project would need gold prices of around us$ an ounce to be viable.. bharti said plant construction would continue until july, but future spending would be deferred after that.. "we would really like to see in this present gold market what the price of gold is and how the overall market performs before we put the propellers on ruster's roost," he said.. in mexico, the velardena project is up for sale following a disappointing performance last year. william resources took a c$. million writedown on the project in the three months ended december , .. "we've been approached by two or three companies that are focused on mexico and interested in buying valedania and we are in advanced negotiaitons with these companies," he said.. earlier this week, the company said first quarter gold production exceeded , ounces at a cash cost of us$ per ounce. the results were slightly under budget due to poor weather at ruster's roost in january, bharti said.. he said financial results for the first quarter will be released before the company's annual meeting on may . at the meeting, shareholders will vote on a proposed one for three stock consolidation.. ((reuters toronto bureau () )).