ontario finance minister ernie eves is expected to deliver more good news on the province's deficit when he delivers the / budget next month.. economists said on monday a brighter fiscal picture may allow eves to speed up implementing the second stage of a promised percent income tax cut.. eves earlier said the / budget for the fiscal year ended march will be released on may .. it is the ruling conservatives' second full budget since they swept to power in canada's most populous province in .. in february, eves revised the / budget deficit to c$. billion, down c$ million from his original budget forecast.. economists said a strong economy and a c$ million contingency reserve could lower the final / deficit figure to around c$ billion.. they said eves should also better his c$. billion deficit forecast for /.. "given the strength we've seen in the economy in recent months and improved prospects for the rest of . it may come in even below that (c$ billion) level," said nesbitt burns senior economist doug porter.. the government's contingency reserve is used to reduce the deficit if it is not needed for unexpected spending needs.. royal bank of canada economist craig wright said he also expected a deficit of around c$ billion in /, falling to about c$ billion in /.. "they have used relatively conservative economic assumptions and contingency reserves and it shouldn't be a problem hitting next year's target and maybe going lower," wright said.. in his third quarter report last february, eves said government revenues grew faster than projected due to a rebounding economy, almost c$. billion higher than forecast.. he said the first stage of the government's percent income tax cut had helped boost consumer confidence in ontario. about half od the tax reduction has been implemented, with the remaining percent due by .. the province's improving finances has led to speculation that eves may accelerate the timing of remaining tax cuts.. "usually where there is smoke there is fire and they (the government) have certainly been quite forward talking about that possibility. it wouldn't be a big surprise if they did accelerate it," porter said.. wright said the government's negotiations with ontario's municipalities on the funding of services may prevent a speedier tax cut..