kellogg co., in a move to broaden its breakfast food business and help offset sluggish cereal sales, said monday it will acquire the lender's bagels business from kraft foods inc. for $ million.. lender's, based in white plains, n.y., is the nation's largest maker of fresh and frozen bagels sold in grocery stores, with annual sales of about $ million. kraft is owned by philip morris cos. inc., the new york based food and tobacco giant.. "lender's bagels is a perfect fit for kellogg company's fast growing convenience foods business," kellogg chairman arnold langbo said.. "with our heritage based in nutrition and our technical competence in grain based food products, adding the nation's number one brand in bagels ... offers substantial new opportunities to grow our business," he said in a statement.. analysts said the deal would extend kellogg's reach into america's breakfast pantry by moving it into the fast growing bagel business, with sales estimated at about $. billion a year.. in addition to being the world's largest maker of ready to eat breakfast cereal, kellogg also makes pop tarts toaster pastries, eggo frozen waffles and nutri grain breakfast bars.. "it's a good fit in that it is a breakfast business," said salomon brothers analyst nomi ghez. "it recognises that the cereal market has matured, and other areas are eating into it. they have to move into those other areas.". the deal, expected to close by year end, includes lender's plants in new haven, conn.; mattoon, ill., and buffalo, n.y., kellogg said.. but the acquisition is not big enough to halt the erosion in kellogg's mainstay cereal business, analysts said. price cuts of about percent this year have failed to boost demand, and kellogg's cereal sales fell as much as percent in the third quarter due to stiff competition, they said.. standard &amp; poor's corp. monday cut its ratings outlook for $. billion in kellogg corporate debt to negative from stable because it believes the company will have difficulty in recapturing lost sales and improving profits.. kellogg's earlier this month warned that its first quarter profits will likely fall below the year earlier results.. kellogg stock fell . cents to $. on the new york stock exchange.. at a price of more than . times lender's sales, the acquisition will depress kellogg's earnings slightly in , ghez estimated. it should boost profits in , she said.. joseph stewart, kellogg's senior vice president of corporate affairs, said the company sees long term growth prospects for lender's bagels, which has percent of the nation's prepackaged bagel market.. "this is a long term positive proposition to build shareholder value," stewart said.. kraft, based in northfield, ill., is the nation's largest packaged food company with revenues of $ billion.. kellogg, based in battle creek, mich., has annual sales of about $ billion..