general motors corp. workers overwhelmingly ratified a new labour contract, the united auto workers union said monday, capping a contentious bargaining season for the big three u.s. automakers.. the uaw said percent of the hourly and skilled workers who voted approved the three year pact, marking the largest approval margin in years.. the pact marks the end of the union's national bargaining for more than , hourly workers at gm, ford motor co. and chrysler corp.. while the ford and chrysler talks hit minor snags, negotiations at gm ignited a national strike by the canadian auto workers in october and local uaw strikes at two plants that stretched into november.. gm said last week the walkouts will reduce its fourth quarter profits by some $ million, and other costs associated with the uaw pact will cost another $ million.. gm's uaw contract follows the pattern set by ford and chrysler on most issues, including a guarantee that gm will maintain employment at percent of its current uaw hourly work force of , people.. all three pacts offer workers about $, over the life of the agreement, including $, lump sum payments in the first year and percent base wage increases in the second and third years.. but the gm pact also includes some tougher restrictions aimed at preventing the shifting of parts work to outside suppliers.. in return, the world's largest automaker gained the ability to drop below the percent level when it makes productivity improvements a big factor given the many new car and truck models gm will introduce in the next few years.. gm also gained flexibility to transfer workers more freely between plants and retained its ability to sell some unprofitable factories. the company will proceed with plans to sell a door hinge plant in flint, mich., and an interior trim plant in livonia, mich., gm spokesman charles licari said.. "we have the ability to execute our business plan," licari said. "we have the ability to reduce employment through productivity gains and attrition.". he declined to say how many jobs gm hopes to eliminate over the life of the agreement. analysts estimate that if gm is allowed to shrink by its normal retirement rate of about percent a year, it could cut , jobs.. "we believe that it is a fair and equitable agreement that provides additional job security as well as economic and benefit enhancements for our employees while giving gm the flexibility that it needs to be more competitive in the future," licari said.. the percent approval margin for the gm contract was higher than any ratification vote since , when . percent of gm's production workers and percent of a smaller group of skilled workers approved the pact.. lehman brothers analyst joseph phillippi said the contract should allow gm to become much more competitive than it could under the previous agreement.. "i think gm won this time around, as opposed to . the key here is they have gained the ability to ride the attrition curve," he said.. but gm still faces a major hurdle in negotiating plant level labour agreements at the vast majority of its uaw locals. uaw officials have said gm could face more local strikes, and such agreements could make it more difficult to reduce employment at each individual plant.. ford and chrysler achieved labour peace in their agreements, but they also are likely to have some flexibility to exit certain unprofitable businesses, phillippi said..