teasing the automotive world with a glimpse of possible product offerings for the turn of the century, chrysler corp on sunday unveiled five concept cars that appear ready for production, including two new versions of its jeep wrangler sport/utility vehicle.. the vehicles, which also include a new dodge roadster based on the plymouth prowler chassis, an affordable neon based small car with a roll back top, and a s style "dual cowl" convertible, are design studies for future vehicles that could be put into production within three years, said thomas gale, chrysler's new product development chief.. "we've made no decision to take any of these to market," he said.. however chrysler will be listening closely to consumer reaction to the vehicles on this year's auto show circuit. in the past, positive public reaction has prompted chrysler to put several concept cars into volume production, including the dodge viper roadster, first shown in . chrylser's plymouth prowler retro roadster, which goes on sale this year, also first began life as a concept car in .. this year's crop of concept cars, unveiled at the start of detroit's north american international auto show, include.. jeep wrangler dakar, a four door hard top version of the wrangler sport/utility vehicle. decked out with a safari style roof rack that holds a spare tire, a winch on the front end and spare fuel cans on the rear, the vehicle appears ready for an african wildlife filming expedition. based on the existing wrangler hardware, the vehicle also may be the easiest to produce.. "personally, i think there's a huge opportunity with something like that car," gale said.. jeep icon, a design study for an all new successor to the curent wrangler. the icon features a lighter, unitized body construction that would offer better fuel efficiency than the current model and an all new drive train, but it retains much of the wrangler's classic styling cues.. dodge copperhead, a two seat roadster reminiscient of classic sports cars of the late s and early s. the copperhead uses the chassis from the prowler and is designed to be a more affordable car that could compete with bmw's $, z roadster.. "copperhead will fit comfortably into any sports car enthusiast's garage and budget," said chrysler design chief john herlitz. plymouth pronto, a plastic bodied hatchback designed to be a roomy, affordable car with style. the vehicle, based on the neon chassis, features a front end that evokes the retro look of the prowler, a design theme that will make its way into more plymouth products, gale said. to cut costs chrysler designed body panels with molded in color and do not need to be painted.. chrysler phaeton, a high style luxury convertible that recalls the automaker's grand touring cars of the s and 's. taking cues from wood hulled motor boats of the s, the car has two cowls, with the back seat separated from the front. powered by a v engine and equipped with a retractible hard top, the phaeton is the most ambitious the concept cars and is part of an effort to add cachet to the automaker's flagship chrysler brand.. gale said projects like the phaeton allow designers to stretch their minds without risking much investment from shareholders.. "other than the phaeton, four out of the five look like they'll see production at some point," said lehman brothers auto analyst joseph phillippi, who attended the unveilings on sunday.. he added that he believes chrysler will remain ahead of its competition in product innovation, which allowed it to gain market share and achieve record sales of . million vehicles in . "the stuff that these guys do is innovative and really is exciting," phillippi said.. the concept cars were the first of scores of production vehicles and design studies to be introduced by major automakers at the show over the next three days. sport/utility vehicles, minivans and sports cars are expected to dominate the show..