riding a crest of popular vehicles, chrysler corp. tuesday reported better than expected fourth quarter earnings, but special charges held the automaker back from its best ever full year profit.. the u.s. no. automaker earned $ million, or $. per share, during the fourth quarter after $ million in charges. excluding those charges, chryler's operating earnings were a record $. billion. in the year ago quarter, chrysler posted net income of $. billion, or $. a share.. chrysler stock jumped $. to $. on the new york stock exchange in afternoon trading.. "our results were outstanding in virtually every respect thanks to what is arguably the strongest product lineup in the industry and to the dedication of our people who have worked so hard to get us where we are today," chrysler chairman robert eaton said in a statement.. chrysler reported full year net income of $. billion, or $. per share.. the automaker's profit fell short of its record of $. billion because of $ million in special charges taken during . on a pretax basis, chrysler earned $. billion for all of , a new calendar year record that topped 's $. billion.. the company, which had its most recent brush with bankruptcy in , rewarded its u.s. employees handsomely in with average profit sharing checks of $, more than double the $, they received in .. based on pretax earnings, chrysler said the profit sharing was below the $, it paid out for because more employees will share in the profits. about , hourly and salaried workers in the united states will receive their payments in february. two years ago, chrysler issued profit sharing checks to , workers in the united states.. during the fourth quarter, chrysler's profit was reduced by $ million in charges that covered the early retirement of debt; higher united auto workers pension costs; a voluntary early retirement program; and the write down of pentastar electronics, a subsidiary sold to a huntsville, ala., investor group for $ million.. excluding the charges, chrysler earned $. billion, or $. a share, in the quarter and $. billion, or $., for the year, beating two year old records for operating results.. wall street cheered the results, which beat analysts' fourth quarter consensus operating estimate of $. a share.. john casesa, an analyst at schroder wertheim, said the most impressive news was an increase in the quarter's gross profit margin to . percent from . percent thanks to high profit vehicles such as the ram pickup trucks and minivans.. "the highlight was the company's gross margin was very good, and that reflects a continued rich product mix," he said.. eaton told reporters in a conference call that chrysler's financial position was so strong it might not need to dip into its approximately $ billion cash reserve to fund operations and stay profitable during the next industry downturn.. "that would allow us to use a significant portion of our cash reserves for growth opportunities that might just occur during such a downturn," eaton said.. casesa said it was the first time eaton has made such a prediction. "it would be the first time in decades any automaker would have been able to do that," casesa said.. he added that growth opportunities could include purchasing vehicle assembly capacity cheaply from a competitor that needed to unload a costly plant during a recession.. chrysler attributed its strong performance to a . percent increase in worldwide factory vehicle sales, to ,, from ,, in .. based on strong sales of trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans, chrysler's share of the u.s. and canadian car and truck market climbed to . percent for the year from . percent in .. eaton said in a statement the company would not rest on its laurels.. "there is no end to the improvements we can achieve if we remain vigilant about controlling our costs and about continually improving our processes and our products," eaton said. "that's the challenge we're all focused on and its one i'm confident we'll meet.".