chrysler corp., capping the strongest annual sales performance in its history, said tuesday it earned $ million during the fourth quarter of , with special charges holding it back from its best full year profit ever.. detroit's no. automaker reported full year net income of $. billion, or $. per common share, compared with $. billion, or $. a share, for calendar year .. last year's results fell short of chrysler's record of $. billion because of $ million in special charges.. chrysler said it finished with ,, u.s. retail vehicle sales, including fleet sales, which broke the calendar year record of ,,.. "one of the highlights of the year was the fact that according to independent data, chrysler is the only auto manufacturer to beat industry average in both owner loyalty, or repurchase rate, and new customer conquest rate in ," chrysler chairman robert j. eaton said.. "that's the best way to grow the company and we did, increasing our combined u.s. and canadian retail market share by . percentage points," he added.. the fourth quarter's results, equal to $. a share, compared with profits of $. billion, or $. a share, in the quarter. revenues climbed to $. billion from $. billion.. chrysler's performance in the latest period included charges totalling $ million related to the retirement of debt, the write down of its investment in pentastar electronics, lump sum retiree pension costs and a voluntary early retirement programme.. on an operating basis, both the fourth quarter and full year were records for chrysler.. excluding the charges, chrysler earned $. billion in the quarter and $. billion for the year, beating out its previous operating records of $. billion in the fourth quarter of and $. billion in the full year.. chrysler attributed its strong performance to a . percent increase in worldwide factory vehicle sales, to ,, from ,, in .. based on strong sales of trucks, sport/utility vehicles and minivans, chrysler's share of the u.s. and canadian car and truck market climbed to . percent for the year from . percent in .. eaton said, however, that the company will not rest on its laurels.. "there is no end to the improvements we can achieve if we remain vigilant about controlling our costs and about continually improving our processes and our products," he said in a statement accompanying the results.. "that's the challenge we're all focused on and it's one i'm confident we'll meet.". chrysler said its employees will share the wealth, with about , u.s. hourly and salaried workers receiving an average profit sharing payment of $, in february.. that compares with $, for the company's performance and $, for the performance, which was received by about , employees.. chrysler's stock rose . cents to $. in very early trading on the new york stock exchange..