mutational and functional analysis of dominant spt (sin) suppressor alleles in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . the saccharomyces cerevisiae spt gene was identified by genetic screens for mutations which are suppressors of ty and delta insertional mutations at the his locus. the ability of spt mutations to suppress the transcriptional interference caused by the delta promoter insertion his delta correlates with an increase in wild type his mrna levels. the spt gene is identical to sin, which codes for a factor genetically defined as a negative regulator of ho transcription. mutations in spt/sin suppress the effects of trans acting mutations in swi genes and of partial deletions in the c terminal domain of the largest subunit of rna polymerase ii. nuclear localization and protein sequence similarities suggested that the spt/sin protein may be related to the nonhistone chromosomal protein hmg. to assess the significance of this structural similarity and identify domains of spt functionally important in the regulation of his delta, we have studied recessive and dominant spt mutations created by in vitro mutagenesis. we show here that several alleles carrying c terminal deletions as well as point mutations in the c terminal domain of the spt protein exhibit a dominant suppressor phenotype. c terminal basic residues necessary for wild type spt protein function which are absent from hmg have been identified. the competence of these mutant spt proteins to interfere with the maintenance of the his (spt+) phenotype of a his delta spt+ strain is lost by deletion of internal hmg like sequences and is sensitive to the wild type spt+ gene dosage. using cross reacting antipeptide polyclonal antibodies, we demonstrate that the intracellular level of the wild type spt protein is not affected in presence of dominant mutations and furthermore that the reversion of the dominance by internal deletion of hmg like sequences is not mediated by altered production or stability of the mutant polypeptides. our results suggest that the products of dominant alleles directly compete with the wild type protein. on the basis of primary sequence similarities, we propose that an hmg box like motif is required for spt function in vivo and that this motif also is necessary for the dominant suppressor phenotype exhibited by some mutant spt alleles.