opponents of u.s. trade concessions to china are expected to mount the fiercest congressional battle in years to overturn president bill clinton's decision to renew china's favored trading status.. while supporters of the president's decision on monday to renew china's most favored nation (mfn) status for another year remain confident of victory, opponents ranging from social conservatives to organized labor are revving up for a fight.. the unusual coalition is blasting the move from both sides of the political spectrum, hitting china's policies on human rights, labor rights, religious rights, trade and abortion.. opponents are also gathering strength from worries over the transfer this summer of hong kong to china, as well as the brouhaha over charges that beijing tried to sway u.s. elections through illegal campaign contributions.. "with hong kong and campaign finance lurking in the background, it will definitely be a tougher fight," a congressional aide, who requested anonymity, said. "a lot depends on what happens between now and the vote.". another congressional aide said, "the coalition of the afl cio and social conservatives makes for a potent force.". house of representatives speaker newt gingrich said this year's decision would be closer than last year's vote in the house to back clinton on mfn. but advocates and even opponents expect the president's policy ultimately to survive.. gingrich, in a toughly worded statement, said he supported mfn status for china, but blasted clinton for not using his announcement to press china for advances on human rights, democratic freedoms and religious tolerance.. even if lawmakers muster enough votes to reject the president's decision which is considered unlikely opponents doubt they could round up the two thirds vote needed to override an expected veto from clinton.. congress later this summer will vote on whether to overturn clinton's decision, with the house voting first.. "the opponents have a better chance than they have had in the past several years. but it still may not be enough of a margin to withstand a veto," said thea lee, international expert at the afl cio, which opposes mfn status for china.. but even a defeat for mfn's opponents could amount to a sort of victory if the vote is close enough.. "it represents an important turning point in the growing uneasiness among both democrats and republicans over the current china trade policy," lee said.. gary bauer, president of the conservative family research council, said. "the president's action represents the high water mark of the pro mfn forces. as the truth of the human rights violations in china reaches the american public, the case for mfn collapses.". a sign clinton will face tougher sledding emerged a week ago, when an influential house republican leader urged the president to revoke china's mfn status, citing beijing's record on human rights, weapon sales and trade.. rep. bill paxon of new york, a gingrich ally who chairs meetings of the republican house leadership team, said current u.s. policy had yielded only "a chinese regime which thumbs its nose at the united states and places its heel on the neck of freedom.". another republican, sen. john chafee of rhode island, introduced a bill in congress on monday that would give china permanent mfn status.. democratic lawmakers are also critical of china.. since clinton "delinked trade from human rights three years ago, the human rights situation in china and tibet has deteriorated, the u.s. trade deficit with china has soared, and china's authoritarian government has continued its sale of nuclear, chemical, missile and biological weapons technology to dangerous countries, including iran," rep. nancy pelosi, a california democrat, said.. but supporters of the administration's policy remain confident. "in the end, the votes will be there for mfn," said calman cohen of the emergency committee for american trade, representing the heads of big u.s. corporations..