anglo u.s. conglomerate hanson plc thursday reported a record . billion british pounds ($. billion) in pretax profits for the last fiscal year before it began a four way split of its operations on oct. .. the group spun off imperial tobacco and millennium chemicals in the fall. its energy group is due to be spun off by february, leaving behind the building group.. the final results showed profits topping forecasts and up sharply from . billion ($. billion) last year.. but the figures were inflated by a one time gain of million pounds ($ million), compared with a charge of million pounds ($ million) last year.. earnings per share were . pence (. cents) vs. . pence (. cents) and a dividend of pence (. cents) will be paid.. of the two divisions that will remain, building materials and equipment saw profits slip to million pounds ($ million) from million ($ million). sales were . billion ($. billion) vs. . billion ($. billion).. the british arm continued to suffer from tough housing and construction markets, but some signs of a turnaround were evident. buoyant u.s. conditions helped to outweigh the negative effects of the british building market.. energy enjoyed sharply higher profits, with strong growth overseas and a further gain in british profit and market share. the surge reflected eastern electricity company's first full contribution since its takeover.. peabody coal saw profits slip to million pounds ($ million) from million pouinds ($ million) as it sought to raise productivity levels.. lord hanson, chairman and co founder of the empire in the throes of the four way split, said prospects for its "family of companies" was very good.. but he was less happy about the progress of its share price performance which he said was "very disappointing.". the combined value of hanson and the demerged companies was pence ($.) on dec. , and now stands at pence ($.), said the chairman.. "this in no way represents either our earning capacity or future prospects," he said.. "hanson's profit in each of the last five years has comfortably exceeded billion sterling ($. billion) and this year's result shows clearly that the momentum continues.". christopher collins, hanson vice chairman said in an interview that the market should take a longer view in judging the hanson companies' value..