anglo american conglomerate hanson plc set the date for the final stage of its ambitious four way demerger on tuesday with the announcement that its energy group division will be spun off on february .. energy group, which is mulling a string of acquisitions in britain and america, said it had started talks with a u.s. power marketing company.. the demerger, which is subject to shareholder approval, will give shareholders one energy share for every existing hanson shares held. hanson shareholders will be asked to vote on the proposal at an extraordinary general meeting on february .. once energy is split off as a separate company, to be listed in london and new york, the rump hanson group will consist of a clutch of building firms.. "we are all very enthusiastic about the future of energy and new hanson and are convinced that both will benefit from enhanced focus on operations, profitability and future growth prospects," chairman lord hanson said.. the first two demergers of britain's imperial tobacco and u.s. quoted millennium chemicals took place last october.. energy, which will be large enough to rank inside britain's top blue chips and the fortune in the u.s., is the last to be split off.. its new management team is led by derek bonham, executive chairman, with two joint chief executives to run operations at the main businesses peabody mining and eastern, the british electricity division.. bonham told a press briefing the group planned to target a number of acquisitions, particularly in the u.s., and admitted entering into "exclusive and confidential" talks with a u.s. power marketing company, subject to due diligence.. it is also examining generating deals in the u.s. and britian, it said.. peabody chief executive irl engelhardt told a press briefing that the coal group could use its knowledge of the u.s. market to help energy exploit opportunities there.. group finance director eric anstee said the group would "take the cash generation of the coal and network businesses and use it where we see future growth in earnings the growing power sector".. eastern generated a total of million pounds ($ million) in cash flow in the year ended september , he said.. energy, which owns eastern, britain's fourth largest electricity generator, said that worldwide demand for energy is expected to rise to percent between and .. according to the u.s. department of energy, world electricity output is expected to grow percent to . coal and gas will account for percent and percent of that generation level by .. energy, which is being sold with . billion pounds of debt, sees this, deregulation in world markets and privatisation as the key opportunities for the group.. investor roadshows are being planned on both sides of the atlantic, with percent of hanson's shares held in the u.s.. the group's annual turnover in the year to september , was . billion pounds, with pre exceptional profits of million pounds. total assets are . billion pounds. ($=. pound).