a plan on how the czech republic will diversify natural gas supplies, now coming solely from russia, has been delayed for several weeks, the industry and trade ministry said on tuesday.. "we are gathering information, analysing it, and it's going to take several weeks (before a the issue is put before the government)," ministry spokesman miroslav konvalina told reuters.. a plan had been expected to be submitted to the government sometime in january. konvalina gave no reason for the delay.. officials have declined to say which partners the government was considering, though government representatives have held talks on limited deliveries from norway.. the ministry is drawing up plans for four options for securing gas supplies, but has given no details. no matter which plan is excepted, russia is expected to remain the dominant supplier.. the ministry said the four options are being considered.. * purchasing all natural gas from gazprom, using two different shipping routes, with a long term agreement until , with price guarantees until .. * purchasing some russian gas indirectly through dutch company nederlandse gasunie nv, and germany's wintershall, a subsidiary of basf. gasunie would start supplies in , delivering up to two billion cubic metres in , with the agreement lasting until .. in case of a fall in russian supplies, it would deliver its own gas through wingas, a joint venture of wintershall ( percent) and gazprom ( percent).. wintershall offers a similar scheme, with deliveries starting on january next year, rising to one billion cubic metres in , under a deal until . negotiations with these firms are in the stage of initiating a supply contract.. * finalising and maintaining the agreement for norwegian gas, which has already been preliminarily approved this year, until .. * a limited purchase from mobil europe gas inc, germany's brigitta erdgas und erdoel (beb) and british gas plc.. the czechs have ended their dependance on russian crude oil by building a new pipeline to germany, but are still completely dependant on supplies provided by russia's gazprom.. the czech republic consumes around eight to nine billion cubic metres of natural gas per year, but volumes are expected to rise to some billion cubic metres by the turn of the century.. prague newsroom, .