ceska sporitelna a.s., the largest czech savings bank, said on thursday its audited net profit rose to . billion crowns ($ million) from million in , using czech acounting standards.. speaking at a news conference, the bank's general director jaroslav klapal said the result was opening room for a higher dividend than last year's five crowns per share, but he declined to specify what the board's proposal would be.. deputy ceo kamil ziegler said results under international accounting standards (ias) would be released together with the bank's consolidated results in mid april.. "we think that the profit under international standards will be similar, probably little lower, by million (crowns) at the most," ziegler told reporters.. the bank's balance sheet dipped to billion crowns at the end of last year from billion in on losses from exposure on the interbank market, and concentration on client loans, ziegler said.. "we are happy with this result, it is a reflection of our strategy of a shift from the interbank market," he said. "this year, we expect the balance sheet total to rise by eight percent.". last year sporitelna, the former communist monolith where most czechs kept personal deposits, cut its interbank market exposure to . percent of total assets from percent in , while loans to clients rose to . percent from ... ziegler said net interest income dipped to . billion from . billion in , while non interest income rose to . from . billion.. he said profits should also rise this year, but declined to give more details of sporitelna's financial plans.. the bank's gross profit was the same as the net result, as the bank paid no income tax.. in the gross profit was . billion crowns, but net earnings were dramatically lower after auditors forced sporitelna to set aside . billion into reserves to cover exposure in doubtfull loans.. in the , accounting period sporitelna said it put aside . billion crowns for reserves. klapal said this figure should decline to . billion in .. klapal also said sporitelna was interested in converting more shares into global depository receipts, after last year's tranche of some seven percent underwritten by bankers trust.. the director said sporitelna would close small branches this year of the total number of ,, and lay off , employees of the current ,.. the bank's capital adequacy ratio, calculated under cnb practices, fell to . percent form ., as a result of rising proportion of loans to clients which are covered from percent in the domestic calculation as opposed to loans to banks which only need percent, ziegler said.. the proportion of classified loans rose to . percent from . percent, also due to the change in loan structure, ziegler said.. prague newsroom, ($ = . czech crowns).