invertase beta galactosidase hybrid proteins fail to be transported from the endoplasmic reticulum in saccharomyces cerevisiae.. . the yeast suc gene codes for the secreted enzyme invertase. a series of different sized gene fusions have been constructed between this yeast gene and the escherichia coli lacz gene, which codes for the cytoplasmic enzyme beta galactosidase. various amounts of suc nh terminal coding sequence have been fused in frame to a constant cooh terminal coding segment of the lacz gene, resulting in the synthesis of hybrid invertase beta galactosidase proteins in saccharomyces cerevisiae. the hybrid proteins exhibit beta galactosidase activity, and they are recognized specifically by antisera directed against either invertase or beta galactosidase. expression of beta galactosidase activity is regulated in a manner similar to that observed for invertase activity expressed from a wild type suc gene. repressed in high glucose medium and derepressed in low glucose medium. unlike wild type invertase, however, the invertase beta galactosidase hybrid proteins are not secreted. rather, they appear to remain trapped at a very early stage of secretory protein transit. insertion into the endoplasmic reticulum (er). the hybrid proteins appear only to have undergone core glycosylation, an er process, and do not receive the additional glycosyl modifications that take place in the golgi complex. even those hybrid proteins containing only a short segment of invertase sequences at the nh terminus are glycosylated, suggesting that no extensive folding of the invertase polypeptide is required before initiation of transmembrane transfer. beta galactosidase activity expressed by the suc lacz gene fusions cofractionates on percoll density gradients with er marker enzymes and not with other organelles. in addition, the hybrid proteins are not accessible to cell surface labeling by i. accumulation of the invertase beta galactosidase hybrid proteins within the er does not appear to confer a growth defective phenotype to yeast cells. in this location, however, the hybrid proteins and the beta galactosidase activity they exhibit could provide a useful biochemical tag for yeast er membranes.