functional analysis of the yeast glc binding protein reg identifies a protein phosphatase type binding motif as essential for repression of adh expression.. . in saccharomyces cerevisiae, the protein phosphatase type (pp) binding protein reg is required to maintain complete repression of adh expression during growth on glucose. surprisingly, however, mutant forms of the yeast pp homologue glc, which are unable to repress expression of another glucose regulated gene, suc, fully repressed adh. constitutive adh expression in reg mutant cells did require snf protein kinase activity like constitutive suc expression and was inhibited by unregulated cyclic amp dependent protein kinase activity like adh expression in derepressed cells. to further elucidate the functional role of reg in repressing adh expression, deletions scanning the entire length of the protein were analyzed. only the central region of the protein containing the putative pp binding sequence rhihf was found to be indispensable for repression. introduction of the im fa substitutions into this sequence rendered reg almost nonfunctional. deletion of the central region or the double substitution prevented reg from significantly interacting with glc in two hybrid analyses. previous experimental evidence had indicated that reg might target glc to nuclear substrates such as the snf kinase complex. subcellular localization of a fully functional reg green fluorescent protein fusion, however, indicated that reg is cytoplasmic and excluded from the nucleus independently of the carbon source. when the level of adr was modestly elevated, adh expression was no longer fully repressed in glc mutant cells, providing the first direct evidence that glc can repress adh expression. these results suggest that the reg glc phosphatase is a cytoplasmic component of the machinery responsible for returning snf kinase activity to its basal level and reestablishing glucose repression. this implies that the activated form of the snf kinase complex must cycle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.