china is considering restrictions on foreign investment in textiles, garments and sectors where domestic production capacity is already excessive, a senior official of the state statistical bureau said on tuesday.. "the production capacity of some of our traditional industries, such as textiles and garments, is pitifully excessive," li qiming, director of the bureau's department of industry and transportation statistics, told reuters.. "we are currently considering...whether to restrict foreign businessmen from entering sectors in which domestic production capacity is already abundant," li said. he did not elaborate.. the losses of state enterprises in these industries exceed the national average, li said but gave no specific figures.. china has said it would curb textile output and unnecessary expansion in the industry in to reduce losses in the state sector. it has set a target of phasing out obsolete textile equipment, including million cotton spindles.. "there were state textile enterprises that posted losses of more than five million yuan ($,) each in . their combined losses reached . billion yuan.". "indigenous enterprises are being squeezed...in some traditional industries," li told a news conference.. "we may have to consider protection," he said.. the bureau spent one year and mobilised five million pollsters to conduct a survey of industries that showed that foreign investment was concentrated mainly in electronics, telecommunications, textile, garment and food processing, officials said.. china's eastern coastal provinces and provincial level cities have attracted percent of total foreign investment, while five provinces in northwest china took in less than one percent of foreign investment, li said.. the survey showed , wholly foreign owned and sino foreign joint ventures had set up in china by the end of , up ,, or . percent compared with end .. their combined output value was . trillion yuan ($. billion) at end , the survey showed. they made profits totalling . billion and paid . billion yuan in taxes.. the number of foreign funded enterprises accounted for percent of the total number of enterprises in china, but the output of foreign firms accounted for percent of the total.. hong kong and taiwan businessmen were the biggest investors, accounting for . percent of the total. it was inevitable that the government would impose restrictions on foreign investment in industries to protect the state sector, analysts said.. about percent of state enterprises registered losses in compared with the previous year, li said.. losses posted by state firms soared . percent in , he said.. pre tax profits of state enterprises slipped . percent in while after tax profits plunged . percent.. excessive stockpiles accounted for percent of funds tied up by finished products.. debts owed among enterprises worsened, with collectibles of state enterprises increasing by . percent in .. ($ = . yuan).