the czech industrial sector is "really in weak shape" with generally low profits and poor corporate leadership, the european bank for reconstruction and development czech team leader said on wednesday.. speaking to an international banking forum jiri huebner of the london based ebrd said return on equity among large czech firms averaged just . percent last year, while the early months of have shown a sharp slowdown in output.. "consequently a typical czech company's profitability is so low that there are insufficient profits to pay dividends over percent did not pay or declare any dividends," he said.. "is the czech industrial sector really in weak shape? i think it is.". huebner said a key problem was debt loads of company owners mostly large domestic funds and holding firms carried over from leveraged buyouts used after the coupon based privatisation scheme, and the ownership structure which has emerged.. he quoted the ebrd's own study of fifty of the largest czech companies which showed that the average level of debt leverage was about percent of the total balance sheet and about percent at engineering companies.. this situation, coupled with uncertainty about poorly regulated capital markets, have combined to keep foreign equity investment at bay, he said.. "as a consequence, most industrial companies face internal cash constraints for financing new investments and for modernisation which are often needed to achieve a leap in productivity," huebner said.. "since coupon privatisation by its nature involved only a change of ownership, czech companies had little resources to restructure.". huebner said czech managers must take strong initiatives to restructure firms since shareholders are proving ineffective.. he called on managers to formulate their own long term plans for investment since "many owners do not behave like long term strategic investors" but instead massively practice transfer pricing and short term speculation.. "in the absence of their own plans, most controlling shareholders will probably not block the managements' intiatives," huebner said.. "all the enterprising and competent czech managements should take advantage of this and fill in the prevailing vacuum of corporate governance.". among the points huebner prescribed to revitalise czech industry, which posted a real contraction in output of . percent in january, the government should.. * adopt a tax system which allows wider writeoffs, rewarding rational decision making by mangement, and lowering punitive tax burdens.. * more strictly enforce rules against transfer pricing between holdings, giving greater protection to minority shareholders, and increasing tax collection.. * encourage more equity expansions by firms by liberalising rights issues procedures and allowing management more freedom to initiate equity issues.. * split banks' investment activities so that corporate decisions do not conflict with lending interests.. also.. * banks should be more discriminating in financing leveraged buyouts.. * management must take a robust intiative to restructure.. prague newsroom, .