barrick gold corp said on wednesday it was now the world's second largest gold producer, supplanting gold fields of south africa ltd.. barrick's gold production was ,, ounces, surpassing gold fields' ,, ounces for fiscal . barrick expects production to top three million ounces again.. the toronto based company posted a percent increase in its proven and probable reserves to million ounces from . million ounces. barrick also reported million ounces of gold in the resource category gold not fully proven yet.. barrick has made no secret of its ambition to become the world's largest gold company, surpassing anglo american corp of south africa ltd.. to clinch first place, barrick is seeking control of the huge busang deposit in indonesia, said to be one of this century's most sensational gold discoveries.. two new mines will also likely carry barrick closer to its leadership goal. drilling at barrick's pierina property in peru expanded reserves there to . million ounces so far, barrick said. the mine is expected to come into production in late at an annual rate of , ounces of gold.. drilling at barrick's pascua mine in chile bumped reserves to million ounces so far, with . million ounces identified in the reserve category. the mine is scheduled to start production of , ounces a year by the year .. barrick has been negotiating with calgary's bre x minerals ltd for months to control the busang discovery, but barrick's chances of success are up in the air.. "one of the messages they'll probably try to get across is that they are not desperate for it, they certainly don't need it, they have an awful lot already," said gold analyst catherine gignac with deacon capital in toronto.. barrick also said today that its fourth quarter and full year earnings fell, due mainly to higher operating and exploration costs. fourth quarter profit declined to us$ million or us$. a share from year earlier us$ million or us$. a share.. full year earnings declined to us$ million or us$. a share from us$ million or us$. a share in .. barrick was down . to . on the toronto stock exchange in afternoon trading on wednesday and by / to / in new york..