british broadcaster carlton communications plc on wednesday reported an percent rise in half year earnings helped by a strong growth in advertising revenue.. carlton, which operates itv commercial television licences for london weekday tv, the english midlands and the west of england, raised pre tax profits to . million pounds ($. million) from . million after a one off loss of around . million pounds.. lifting half year dividend by percent to . pence and sending the company's shares jumping, chairman michael green pledged that the group would continue to invest in businesses and boost prospects.. "we have maintained our clear focus, built up our market leading positions and enhanced both our profitability and our prospects for future growth," he said in the results statement.. "we will continue to build on this approach and make sure carlton makes the best of its excellent prospects.". the results helped restore some enthusiasm in carlton's shares, which have been underperforming the market by around percent in the last three months. by mid morning, the stock leapt . pence to .p.. carlton, whose library boasts over , hours of tv programmes including almost , films, said its core broadcast business was one of the main drivers behind profits, seeing a percent rise on the operating level to . million pounds.. an percent rise in advertising revenues, higher programme sales and a . million pound trading contribution from newly acquired businesses such as westcountry tv helped boost earnings.. robert jolliffe, media analyst at abn amro hoare govett, is forecasting unchanged full year pretax profits of million pounds and said the performance of some of carlton's divisions such as its products arm had been "extraordinarily strong" at the half way stage.. "carlton airtime sales continue to dominate itv. they've seen good market share gains and a strong london market so they've done very well in the first half," he added.. carlton's share of itv's advertising revenue edged up to . percent from . percent while telecoms, financial services and airline groups raised advertising spend in a battle to win new clients and keep old ones.. but some brokers, such as bzw, are warning that the advertising revenue outlook over the next four to five years in britain should be questioned against a background of increasing competition, analysts say.. another highlight in carlton's results was its fast growing quantel division, which designs and manufactures tapeless editing and broadcasting systems for the film and television industry worldwide.. operating profits leapt percent to . million pounds, fulfilling expectations of rapid growth. some analysts expect new product launches to feed through into the bottom line in the next months.. but carlton's video division cast a pall over results, with operating profits slipping to . million pounds on percent lower turnover of . million.. chairman green blamed the slow start to the year on the timing of releases and variations in the mix of the business, but added that he was optimistic about making progress in the second half.. analysts are awaiting news on whether carlton and its partners in british digital broadcasting (bdb) have been awarded key digital terrestrial tv licences in britain.. carlton in january joined rival tv giant granada group plc and rupert murdoch's dominant pay per view broadcaster british sky broadcasting group plc to form the formidable bdb.. bdb wants to offer some subscription channels. the group faces competition from digital television network (dtn), owned by nasdaq listed ntl inc but in what has been dubbed a classic case of david versus goliath, most analysts tip bdb as the winner.. carlton, which has a cash pile of million pounds, said it expected the independent television commission watchdog to award the licence by the end of june.. "digital terrestrial television brings enormous opportunities to carlton," green stated.. ($ = . british pounds).