psion plc, the british hand held computer company, saw its shares plummet by almost one fifth on monday as a slowdown in sales overshadowed the launch of a key new product it said was "light years" ahead of its rivals.. the shares dived to close at to .p, a loss of .p or . percent, having hit an earlier low of p. some analysts said the stock, which was also hit by concerns over the continued strength of sterling, could fall to as little as p over the next six months.. psion, which launched the first handheld organiser years ago, said its new chequebook sized series product was the first fully functional, pen orientated, portable computer that fits into a hand driving palmtop computing into the st century.. but chairman david potter conceded that the group's performance would be affected until the new bit computers had become established.. the statement was interpreted by some analysts as a potential profit warning.. "it's not inconceivable that psion could earn less profit this year than last year," warned keith woolcock, analyst at brokers merrill lynch.. the strength of sterling had knocked about three percentage points off gross margins and with the promise of a new product, sales of older computers had turned sluggish as customers held out for the new machines, analysts noted.. "the new machines will not be in a position to be sold in volumes before the autumn so psion is going to have a big problem," woolcock noted.. the problem psion faces is a familiar one.. the company saw its profits fall in , before it was floated, when it launched its organiser and struggled to switch from one big selling product to another.. but woolcock said that while over optimism ahead of the launch may have driven shares up too high, in terms of sophistication, the new computer was not in the same "corner of the universe" as those of its competitors.. while rivals such as microsoft corp were introducing chaos into psion's market, such a computer giant would only become a serious threat in one or two years, he added.. "the upside is that psion can come through this," woolcock said. "we know that they now have some new partners...they have a great product, a good brand name and if psion can position itself as an antidote to the blandness which microsoft's products seem to represent it's got a great future," he said.. psion, which said it was initially selling , of the new computers each month, hopes to boost sales to nearly , by september or october.. potter told reporters in a telephone conference call that the new computer, which is compatible with microsoft office products, lotus smartsuite and corel/wordperfect, was expected to account for nearly percent of annual turnover by next year.. two models in the series range the mb and the mb, which are being retailed at . pounds ($) and . pounds respectively will be available in countries and eight languages. ($ = . british pounds).