britain's largest retail financial services group, lloyds tsb, on friday reported a pct jump in profits, but analysts said the figure was somewhat flattering and included lower than expected bad debt provisions.. pretax profits in the first full year following the merger between lloyds bank and tsb group rose to . billion pounds ($. billion), and the bank, which has recently been the star performer in a booming british banking sector, said it still has "unique opportunities for future profitable growth.". the profit figure followed . billion the previous year. lloyds tsb raised its dividend by percent to .p per share from p, while earnings per share soared by percent to .p from ... banking analysts said the headline data flattered the bank's underlying performance, however, and expressed some concern for future income growth. lloyds shares eased p to but later improved to stand unchanged by gmt at p.. "there's nothing really wrong with the results," said john leonard, banking analyst at salomon brothers. "but they are not as glorious as they look on the surface.". analysts pointed out that the large drop in bad debt provisions percent down to million pounds was a surprise, even though some improvement was expected given that the bank has increased higher quality assets such as mortgages.. "bad debts were much lower than expected," said nick collier, banking analyst at morgan stanley, "and there was a bigger return from problem country debt.". specific provisons for bad and doubtful debts were down to million stg from million in while profit from its problem country debt portfolio, mainly in latin america, jumped to million stg from million.. lloyds said "problem country debt" had improved so much that it is renaming the portfolio "emerging markets debt".. leonard and panmure gordon analyst david poutney both said they would likely not be increasing their profit forcasts for which stand at . billion pounds and . billion pounds respectively.. but poutney, who has been advising clients to hold the shares but take profits, said he was now a seller.. "overall, they are good figures but then it comes down to the valuation of the shares," poutney said, "and they are looking a bit expensive. i can't see them making much headway from here.". lloyds said it made a restructuring provision of million pounds following its purchase of the minority interest in lloyds abbey life and expects to make cost savings of million pounds per year from the acquisition to add to the million pounds its expects to save from the tsb merger.. it also said it was raising its provision against possible redress from the mis selling of pensions by million pounds to million, a move welcomed as prudent by analysts.. in a joint statement, lloyds tsb chairman and its new chief executive peter ellwood said the high quality of the bank's earnings should enable it to produce consistently higher returns than the industry average.. lloyds tsb's total revenue rose seven percent to . billion pounds and net interest margin was maintained at end levels despite erosion in some areas.. other concerns in the figures included a rise in general insurance claims to million stg from million in and a sharp fall in currency dealing profits which dropped to million stg compared to million in .. despite these concerns analysts were generally positive, although, given the shares' outperformance last year, they said this would be more difficult to maintain in . ($=. pound).