national westminster bank plc on tuesday reported a jump in operating profit but the bank's shares dipped after it warned of an economic slowdown in and did not perform an expected share repurchase.. underlying profit rose by percent and natwest, one of britain's biggest banks, said the headline profits figure was hit by one off items.. profit before tax was . billion pounds ($. billion) after exceptional items, with operating profit from continuing operations up by million to . billion pounds.. the bank said it expected the pace of british economic growth to slow in , however, and as a consequence was adopting a more cautious approach to lending.. "we don't want people to get carried away by . percent (economic ) growth this year which is what me might still see," natwest chief executive derek wanless told reuters in an interview.. "our belief is that whoever wins the election, rates will rise and the fiscal position could well be tighter.". he added that natwest was putting the lending policies in place now for people who will be paying back in that economic climate.. wanless said natwest expected british base rates to rise to / percent by the end of the year compared to their current six percent level.. natwest increased its general provisions against bad debts by million pounds and made specific provisions of million pounds.. analysts said the market would be disappointed that natwest had not performed a further repurchase of shares following its million pounds buyback last july.. wanless said natwest will perform further share repurchases if it generates more surplus capital.. some analysts had expected natwest to use its remaining shareholder authority to buy back million shares which would have cost it some million pounds but the bank made no announcement.. "if we've got surplus capital we will return it to shareholders," wanless said. "that's still the policy and will remain the policy.". he said natwest would ask shareholders to return its buy back mandate to million shares at its agm in april but declined to give any clues on when a repurchase might actually be performed.. natwest's pre tax profit figure came after a loss of million pounds on sale of businesses such as its u.s. banking operation bancorp, costs of million on the redesign of its uk retail bank and a gain of million on the sale of its stake in venture capital company i.. pre tax profits at natwest markets, its investment banking arm, rose to million pounds from million, although this included a fall in bad debt provisions to million pounds from million.. wanless said the group would not bid in the auction currently under way for mutually owned life insurer scottish amicable but added that it was still on the look out to bolster its operations in the area of long term savings.. wanless said natwest uk saw a six percent rise in income and a two percent fall in costs despite the fact that it was spending large amounts on new systems.. he said an additional million pounds would be spent on this in .. natwest is paying a final dividend of . pence, raising the total for the year by . percent to .p.. by gmt, natwest shares were / pence lower at having rallying from a low earlier of . ($ = . british pounds).