national westminster bank plc will perform further share repurchases if it generates more surplus capital, its chief executive derek wanless said on tuesday.. some analysts had expected natwest to use it remaining shareholder authority to buy back million shares which would have cost it some million stg but the bank made no announcement when it posted its results earlier.. "if we've got surplus capital we will return it to shareholders," wanless told reuters in an interview. "that's still the policy and will remain the policy." . wanless said natwest would ask shareholders to return its buy back mandate to million shares at its agm in april but declined to give any clues on when a repurchase might actually be performed.. wanless noted that natwest's tier one capital ratio stood at . percent at the end of , "which is in the range we talk about for tier one . to . obviously we are generating capital which isn't being used in the balance sheet.". he also pointed out that natwest generated and used a large amount of capital on improving systems and technology in natwest uk and on acquisitions to add to natwest markets, its investment banking arm in .. wanless said natwest uk saw a six percent rise in income and a two percent fall in costs despite the fact that it was spending large amounts on new systems.. he said an additional million pounds would be spent on this in .. earlier, natwest posted a pre tax profit of . billion stg, down from . billion in , but this included million stg disposal loss, million stg charged for the restructuring of its retail bank and a million stg gain from the sale of shares in venture capital firm i.. on the operating level, profits were up percent at . billion stg.. wanless noted that natwest uk saw a six percent rise in income while costs were down two percent and said that the investment banking arm, natwest markets performed well.. natwest markets raised it pre tax profit to million stg from million stg but wanless admitted that much of this was down to a sharp fall in bad debt provisions which in were dominated by a large specific hit, generally understood to be have been against eurotunnel debt.. in a statement with the figures, natwest said it expected the pace of uk economic growth to slow in and as a consequence was adopting a more cautious approach to lending.. "although the uk economic environment remains positive, we see the pace of growth slowing in and are adopting a more cautious approach to lending," said natwest chairman lord alexander.. wanless said natwest expected uk base rates to rise to / percent by the end of the year compared to their current six percent level.. "we don't want people to get carried away by . percent (economic )growth this year which is what me might still see," wanless said. "our belief is that whoever wins the election, rates will rise and the fiscal position could well be tighter.". he added that natwest was putting the lending policies in place now for people who will be paying back in that economic climate.. natwest increased its general provisions against bad debts by million stg and made specific provisions of million stg.. the latter included a sharp rise at lombard which wanless said was a largely a function of its increasing consumer finance business.. london newsroom + .