prudential corp. plc tuesday beat out rivals to win control of mutually owned insurance group scottish amicable and reinforced its position as britain's no. fund manager.. by beating bids from abbey national plc and australian mutual provident, prudential's takeover of scotam will raise its funds to more than billion pounds ($ billion).. "pru has not gone crazy and paid a stupid price," said michael lindsay, analyst at lehman brothers. "the acquisition looks to be earnings neutral in the first year and enhancing thereafter.". scotam said policy holders would benefit from cash and additional policy benefits worth more than . billion pounds ($. billion). these include million pounds ($ million) from prudential shareholders' and policy holders' funds in compensation for loss of membership rights and a special bonus from scotam's life fund worth million pounds ($ million), which will go into policies.. in addition, the entire remaining scotam life fund will be distributed, estimated to have a current value of million pounds ($ million).. on this basis, scotam with profits policy holders should receive total benefits of around , pounds ($,), varying according to the size and age of the policy.. policy holders will also benefit from financial support to the tune of . billion pounds ($. billion) to boost scotam's life fund which will be closed.. scotam's original plan was to end its mutual status and float shares on the stock exchange in two or three years. but the plan was thrown into confusion after abbey national made a bid for the firm last month.. "our offer used the strength of our balance sheet and the prudential life fund," prudential chief executive sir peter davis told reuters. "we've put together an imaginative structure with the key difference being the capital injection or support we've offered of up to . billion pounds ($. billion) to the (scotam) life fund.". davis said the boost to scotam's fund the company will be run as a completely separate entity under the prudential umbrella will mean that it will be able to have a more flexible investment policy. this could include a greater proportion of investments in equities and higher returns.. the merger, creating scottish amicable life, is subject to the approval of policyholders at a special general meeting to be held in june.. roy nicolson, managing director of scotam, told reuters the new capital would allow greater investment in equities, providing the opportunity for better returns for policy holders in the future.. he said prudential had pledged to maintain the number of jobs in the scotam head office for three years. he said it was far too early to know if there would be job losses outside the head office..