ford motor co.'s sales tumbled . percent in the month of august as the no. automaker reported worse than expected results thursday in both its car and normally strong light truck business.. ford reported u.s. sales of ,, down from , in the year ago month. sales of domestically produced cars fell . percent on a daily selling basis to ,. sales of its pickup trucks, minivans and sport/utility vehicles totalled ,, a decline of . percent.. in a slight to ford's quest for its taurus to be the best selling car for , its sales for the first eight months slipped behind those of its nemisis, honda motor co.'s accord, by , units.. results from ford, the last automaker to report, capped a mixed month for detroit's big three and contributed to a . percent total industry decline to ,, units for august.. total sales of north american built cars were off . percent to ,. that was partially offset by a . percent increase in domestically produced light trucks, to ,.. the seasonally adjusted annual selling rate finished the month at a healthy . million units. however, analysts said factors provided by the u.s. department of commerce to compute the rate artifically inflated it by about , units.. those same factors made the july rate seem weak at . million units, analysts said. in august , the rate was . million units, the second highest of the year.. ford portrayed its august sales slump as part of the expected drop off in second half sales for .. "as anticipated, the automotive market has slowed somewhat since earlier this year," said robert rewey, group vice president of marketing and sales. "in recent months we've seen interest rate increases for automotive financing that clearly have influenced industry wide demand.". ford said vehicles sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of . million unit sales for the first five months of . the automaker continues to forecast total industry u.s. sales at . million to . million units. sales for all of were . million.. at least one analyst welcomed the lower august industry numbers, saying they might make the federal reserve board re think any possible interest rate hikes.. "the lower the better," said lehman brothers analyst joeseph phillippi. "maybe they'll keep the fed quiet.". in august, ford's normally strong light truck business was hurt by a decline in government sales, competitive pricing pressures and production shortages of key f models.. f series sales inched up . percent to ,.. explorer sales, which have fallen in recent months due to the production startup of its sister, the mercury mountaineer, were down almost percent to ,.. on the car side, contour sales sank percent to ,, while mystique sales were down percent to ,. taurus sales were ,, a percent increase, which brought total sales this year to ,. but that was not enough to top the accord, which sold , cars year to date.. ford said it has scheduled a nearly percent increase in fourth quarter north american truck production, to , units, to meet expected future demand for its popular f series.. car production is scheduled to fall percent to , for the same period. total fourth quarter north american output is forecast at ,,, an increase of about percent from the fourth quarter of .. on wednesday, general motors corp. said total car and truck sales fell . percent, led by a nearly percent drop in passenger car sales.. chrysler corp. was the only one of the big three to post a sales increase. it reported earlier this week that sales rose . percent, helped by a strong performance from minivans, sport/utilities and pickup trucks..