general motors corp. said tuesday its fourth quarter earnings fell by more than half as labour strife slashed production and took a $ million bite out of profits.. the world's largest automaker earned $ million, or cents a share, in the fourth quarter, down from $. billion, or $. a share, in the fourth quarter. all figures exclude results from electronic data systems corp., which was spun off last june.. gm's fourth quarter revenues fell to $. billion from $. billion.. for all of , gm earned $. billion, or $. a share, down from $. billion, or $. a share. revenues for the year rose to $. billion from $. billion.. u.s. and canadian auto workers struck gm plants in october and november, while a united auto workers strike at two dayton, ohio, brake plants crippled gm's north american production for more than two weeks.. the strikes cut gm's full year earnings by $. billion and were largely responsible for a fourth quarter loss of $ million in gm's core north american automotive operations. a year earlier, gm earned $ million in north america.. "clearly our fourth quarter and calendar year results were impacted by the strike related production losses in the united states and canada and are not indicative of gm's potential for continued profit improvement," gm chairman john smith said.. smith also blamed gm's disappointing results on factory changeovers for new models and higher expenses for incentives and advertising.. gm's fourth quarter also included several extraordinary items that brought down earnings by $ million, or cents a share, including the $ million in strike costs, a $ million loss on the sale of four parts plants a $ million charge related to gm's new uaw contract.. in addition, the fourth quarter also included a separate, favourable tax gain of $ million.. the strikes also ate into profit sharing checks for gm's union workers. gm said u.s. , represented workers in the united states will receive about $ each less than half of the $ they recived last year and a pittance of the $, that chrysler corp. workers will get this year.. gm said , eligible salaried workers also will receive profit sharing checks based on their level of pay and responsibility.. gm chief financial officer j. michael losh promised that the new car and truck models that gm is now introducing would bring long awaited gains in north american market share and profitability in .. gm's u.s. car and truck market share fell to percent in from . in .. "as we look forward to , gm will get the bulk of its improvements here in north america, and we do expect to improve year to year," losh told reporters.. the automaker will need the gains to offset a worsening picture in its international operations. gm officials told analysts not to expect increases in international profits for because of the slumping car market in europe and spending for new plants in poland, argentina, thailand and china.. gm's fourth quarter international profits fell to $ million from $ million a year ago. for the full year, they fell to $. billion from $. billion in .. in europe, gm's fourth quarter profits fell percent to $ million as retail incentive soared to $ per car from $ a year earlier.. gm's worldwide wholesale vehicle sales fell . percent to . million cars and trucks, with north american shipments off . percent and international shipments up . percent.. analysts said the results were disappointing, but contained a few bright spots, including an increase in gm's year end cash reserve to $ billion from $. billion at the end of and $. billion on september , .. "it's a good news, bad news quarter," said burnham securities analyst david healy. "it suggests that if is normal and largely free of strikes, it ought to be another good year for cash generation.". cash beyond gm's $ billion reserve goal may be used to boost stock repurchases, analysts said. losh said gm wanted to move quickly on the $. billion buyback plan announced monday. gm stock closed down $. at $. on the new york stock exchange..