ford motor co. said wednesday profits jumped percent to $. billion in the fourth quarter as it rebounded from product launches that held profits down a year earlier.. ford, the last of the big three detroit automakers to report fourth quarter results, said the earnings equaled $ a share. the results reflected a total of $ million in special charges, including costs related to ford's decision to cut , jobs last year.. in the quarter, ford earned $ million, or cents a share. sales rose to $. billion from $. billion.. excluding one time items, ford's fourth quarter income was $. a share higher than the $. a share forecast by analysts, according to first call, which tracks estimates.. although ford appears to be making headway in cost reduction, analysts were not overly impressed, noting that sales of high profit light truck products are booming.. "they were not great, especially in view of the fact that they are selling a lot trucks," said maryann keller, an analyst with furman selz &amp; co.. ford chairman alex trotman said in a statement that automotive earnings will improve in , because the company has successfully completed its highest volume launches in north america and europe.. "we're starting in a much stronger competitive position," he said.. trotman said ford expects better results for all of in europe, where the company is moving to cut costs. ford also predicted smaller losses in south america for , he added.. "overall, we are on track," he said.. meantime, ford chief financial officer john devine told reporters that cost cutting will reach new heights in . for the first time, ford expects costs to be below those of the prior year.. the fourth quarter results capped a mixed year for the automaker in which strong profits from its financial services group were needed to offset a steady flow of red ink from overseas operations.. earnings for all of rose percent to $. billion, or $. a share, from $. billion, or $. in . ford's worldwide automotive operations posted net income of $. billion, down from $ billion. financial services earned a record $. billion in , up percent over .. revenues for the year climbed to $. billion from $. billion in .. ford's core u.s. automotive operations, which contribute about percent of total automotive revenues, reported profits of $ million for the fourth quarter, compared with $ million a year ago.. ford continued to have problems overseas, but there were signs of progress in turning those operations around. ford's european loss for the quarter rose to $ million from $ million. but excluding $ million in severance charges in the quarter, the operating results showed a $ million profit, versus a $ million operating profit last year.. in south america, where ford has struggled in the brazilian market, the fourth quarter net loss was $ million, compared with a $ million loss a year ago.. "i thought the fourth quarter was an okay quarter. what was most important was improvement on the cost front," said ronald glantz, an analyst at dean witter reynolds.. on tuesday, general motors corp. said strike costs slashed fourth quarter earnings by percent to $ million. chrysler corp. last week said fourth quarter earnings fell to $ million, down from $. billion.. ford's stock lost . cents to close at . on the new york stock exchange..