ford motor co. wednesday threatened to halt production at three plants in michigan and ohio if johnson controls inc. and the united auto workers did not work out a solution to a nine day strike.. ford's action would idle about , hourly workers and suspend production of two of its best selling and most profitable vehicles, the expedition full size sport utility and f series pickup trucks.. ford spokeswoman francine romine macbride said the automaker told uaw locals wednesday afternoon if an agreement was not reached by thursday, production would stop at the end of the regular afternoon shift that day.. plants that would be affected are in wayne, mich., lorain, ohio, and avon lake, ohio.. about uaw workers at two johnson controls plants walked off the job on jan. when talks broke down on a new contract with the milwaukee based company. the plants, located in plymouth, mich., and oberlin, ohio, make seats for the expedition and econoline and club wagon full size vans.. the action marks ford's most public and aggressive action to push the two sides toward a resolution since it refused to accept seats made by non union replacements several hours after the strike began.. david healy, an analyst at burnham securities inc, said ford's move could serve as a "wake up call" for the union, but also could end up hurting the automaker's first quarter earnings. ford makes about $, before taxes on each expedition, he said, and does not have much flexibility to recoup lost production.. "ford is in a sense shooting itself in the foot," healy said.. negotiations resumed wednesday afternoon after breaking off tuesday, johnson controls spokesman jeff steiner said.. thinking the strike would end quickly, ford has been continuing to make expeditions and econolines with temporary seats and storing the vehicles in nearby lots. by the end of production today, the company will have about , expeditions and , econolines without proper seats.. dealers had a day supply of expeditions on their lots at the end of january. the industry typically considers a day supply to be ideal.. ford officials expressed concern that johnson controls would have problems meeting ford's ongoing requirements in addition to catching up to expeditions and econolines already made.. "we really truly believed there would be an early settlement and that's clearly not the case," romine macbride said.. in additions to expeditions, ford makes its popular f series pickups at truck plant in wayne, where , uaw members work.. the lorain plant does final assembly of econolines and club wagons. about , workers would be affected by a shutdown. production of the thunderbird and cougar cars would be affected, although those lines already were idled for separate reasons.. at the avon lake plant, which makes frames for the commercial vans, , workers would be affected. frame production of the mercury villager and nissan quest minivans would not be affected, ford said.. ford officials declined to comment on how much the strike was likely to cost ford.. uaw spokesman karl mantyla declined to comment on ford's action. steiner at johnson controls said the company was aware of ford's position and was committed to settling the strike as soon as possible.. the two sides were at odds over pay levels for a new contract. the union says it wants the same hourly rate of $ to $ that competitors pay. but steiner said johnson controls has put forth a competitive offer.. "we feel we've got a fair and reasonable package on the table that compares favourably to what the uaw has agreed to at other supplier plants," he said..