daily circulation at detroit's two strike bound newspapers fell by a third in the first quarter of from a year ago, according to the first audited figures released since the strike began.. combined daily circulation of the free press and detroit news was down percent at , for the january through march period, detroit newspapers inc., the joint operating agency that runs two papers, said friday.. the number, as verified by the audit bureau of circulations, was below the , that the papers say they distributed, because abc could not confirm payment or collection for all the papers.. the circulation drop from the same three months in roughly coincides with the percent to percent decline newspaper officials have acknowledged since the strike began in july .. about , pressroom, mailroom, delivery and newsroom employees from six unions walked off the job in a dispute over proposed work rule changes and job cuts. knight ridder inc. owns the free press. the news is owned by gannett co. inc... circulation for the combined sunday edition as counted by the audit bureau declined to ,, a percent drop from ,, in the year ago period. detroit newspapers said they distributed , combined sunday papers.. the audit bureau, which contacted thousands of subscribers, had trouble guaranteeing that all of the subscriptions had been paid. they also found some readers were reluctant to admit they read the struck papers, the newspapers said.. detroit newspapers officials said they have concentrated more on delivering papers during the strike than on collecting for them.. "as time has gone by, we have been increasingly successful at re establishing all of our distribution procedures, including billing and collection," said rob althaus, senior vice president of circulation, in a statement.. the newspapers said their combined daily net paid circulation in the april through august period has increased by ,, or . percent, using the audit bureau criteria for calculating paid subscribers. sunday circulation for the same period grew by ,, or . percent.. roger kerson, a spokesman for the striking unions, said the audited figures reinforce the unions' position that it was too costly to produce papers under strike conditions.. "they show a critical and devastating loss of readership," said kerson. "i hope the admission of these horrible circulation numbers will lead to some (bargaining) progress.". no negotiations were held this week, although some meetings are scheduled for next week, the papers said..