shanghai's economy, which grew a phenomenal percent last year, is likely to see only slightly slower growth in , but unemployment in china's largest city is rising, the city's statistics bureau announced on wednesday.. shanghai's gross domestic product growth rate is likely to stabilise and fall gradually in the next few years, the statistics bureau's director sun zuyao told a news conference.. "the gdp growth rate for shanghai in is likely to differ from that of by around one percentage point, and from current conditions, it would appear more likely to be down rather than up," sun said.. "shanghai's economy has been growing at more than percent a year since . that's fast enough," he added. "of course, if everyone does good work, then we could see an increase.". previously published figures give shanghai's gdp for at billion yuan, a rise of percent on .. sun said one of the biggest problems facing the city was how to deal with the large number of loss making state owned enterprises and the staff who are forced out of their jobs with only a subsistance allowance.. he said the number of shanghai's unemployed workers, including the so called "xiagang" staff (staff withdrawn from their posts) from state enterprises, rose percent during .. sun said the number of people in the city registered as unemployed with no connection to any work unit was , at the end of , about the same as at the end of .. but he said the number of "xiagang" workers had risen to , by the end of , up from , at the end of .. analysts say china's communist government forces the heavily indebted state enterprises to keep most of their workers on their books, fearing the social consequences of sudden and massive unemployment.. but sun said there had been an improvement in the overall situation with the state enterprises in shanghai, which are the target of continuing gradual pressure to improve their operations or else merge or close.. about . percent of state enterprises in shanghai lost money last year, down from percent in , with losses last year amounting to . billion yuan, or about percent of the total profits of shanghai's industrial enterprises.. "due to the ongoing reforms of the state enterprise sector, i think there will be a relatively good improvement in the situation with regard to loss making state enterprises this year," he said.. the statistics issued by the bureau on wednesday highlighted the changes taking place within shanghai's economy, particularly in the textile sector that was once the powerhouse of the city's industry.. output of cloth in fell by . percent to million metres and yarn output fell . percent to , tonnes.. ($ = . yuan).